(upbeat carnival music) (carnival music continues) (carnival music continues) (carnival music continues) (crowd chattering) (calliope music) (crowd continues chattering) (calliope music continues) (clown laughing) - Here you are, folks (slapping), here you are. Come right this way. Step right up, get your money. Put your money on the lucky number, and watch the wheel spin, and get a babydoll to take home. So come on, come on and spin. You can't fill up here. Come on, folks, get your money. - I think I'll have my fortune told. You stay here and test your strength. And be here when I get back. - Thank you, dear. (clown laughing) (crowd chattering) (upbeat carnival music) (crowd yelling) (shoes tapping) (upbeat jazz music) (crowd yelling) (shoes tapping) (upbeat jazz music continues) (upbeat jazz music continues) - Are you busy? - Why shouldn't I? The reporter guy was gettin' too close to home. - Lou, you're such a smart man. - Better make your change. It's almost time for your act. - To me, you're a big guy. - Run along, baby, run along. (upbeat jazz music continues) (clown laughing) (upbeat jazz music continues) (clown continues laughing) (upbeat jazz music continues) (crowd chattering) - Hey. Go tell Blake. (clown continues laughing) - Sergeant in there? - Yeah, but why? Since the last pinch, the girls are wearing so many clothes, it isn't- - Well, I gotta go in anyway. (upbeat jazz music continues) - Trouble? - (indistinct) - What for? - They forgot to tell me. - Just another of Reeves' scheme for a shakedown. - That guy, big shot. - I pay him plenty to get me a permit to run this carnival. If I've gotta square something, I want him here. I'll tell them so and so's. (upbeat jazz music) (dancers chattering) (feet thudding) (crowd chattering) - My make-up shelf. - Come on, will ya. (door slams) (girls chattering) - Have any of you girls been steppin' outta line? The place is crawling' with cops. - No. (girls chattering) - You, Gigi? - Who me? - Well those ain't blue pajamas those boys are wearing out there, and they didn't come here looking for dates. (girls chattering) - All we need is cops for boyfriends. - Oh, shut up! This ain't no joke. Reeves was supposed to have knocked off that vice investigation. And yet the place is lousy with cops. Have you been talking? - What would I talk about? - Maybe they're after you. - I haven't done anything wrong, lately. (girls laughing) - Wait a minute, Sarge. What can I do for ya? - You the boss around here? - Yeah. Who sent you out here anyway? - Your friend, Mr. Reeves. - Reeves? What's the beef? - Murder. - Anybody I know? - Yeah. Marsh, editor of "The Herald," the vice crusading guy. - Who do they think killed him? - I don't know. I'm looking for a young guy, about 25, blonde, husky, wearing a tweed sports jacket and light tan slacks, and he's got a blue handkerchief. - Oh. - There's a girl with him. - There's a lot of young guys with girls around here. - I know, I know, I know. Now I look, Mr. Blake, we're not gonna cause any trouble around this carny. If we can help it. You see this guy, report him to me. - Sure, I'll pass the word around. (crowd chattering) (calliope music) - Oh God. - Murder. - Oh Bill, you heard it. Murder! - Yeah, murder. You said they were gonna frame me, remember? - You can't stay here, Bill. We've got to go away, far away. - Uh-uh. No thanks. Janet, I've got to think of some way to get you out of this though. - No, we're in this together. The only way to get me out is to get yourself out. - You don't understand. You're in a spot. - And you! You're only wanted for murder. Well, your picture's going to look great in the post office. - But Janet, if they catch me, it only means a trial. - A trial in this town, where Reeves has the police and the judges in his pocket? - But at least I've got a chance. You haven't. Look Janet, I'm sure that Reeves knows that you can prove that I didn't possibly kill Marsh. And he's got to keep you away from the newspapers and the cops. And the only way he can do that is to put you away for keeps. - Oh Bill, you're really thinking of me. Let's get out of this carnival. - No siree, the solution of this mystery is right here in this two-bit carny. That was Marsha's hunch. - You don't seem to understand Bill. I'm scared. I'm really scared. - Oh baby, look. There, you feel better? - Well, better. Bill, Bill, why don't we hide out here until the show breaks tonight? And then go with it across the state line. Reeves doesn't own the town of Shelbyville. - Oh, we couldn't do that. Besides, baby, we must be getting pretty hot on the trail, 'cause somebody is awfully anxious to keep me away from here. And if I ran away now, I'd be proving I was guilty. I'd be doing exactly what they want, see? - But Bill. - No buts, honey. (crowd chattering) Now look, Jan, nobody's gonna be using this cot if the show is moving outta town tonight. I want you to stay right here and relax. - Relax? Gee, thanks. - (laughs) You'll be safe. Don't worry. (lips smack) - But Bill. - No buts, remember? - No buts, but Bill, please, please don't leave me. - I've got to Janet. If I don't, you and I are gonna be running away for the rest of our lives. There's some big guy, and he's right here. He's bigger than Reeves too. I've got to find out who that is, and I've got to ask questions. - Oh, the reporter bit? Oh Bill, you're not gonna go out and ask people, well, what do you think of of men who earn their living by, by V-girls? - No. - Oh honey, no. - Now that fellow Blake said he was the owner of this carnival. Well that means he must have an office. That's where I'm going now. - No. - At least it's a starting point. Yeah. And I want you to wait right here for me, okay? Let's see, I can't change my looks, but I can change my description. Make myself look as much like those yokels outside as possible. - What's that? - A work tent. The roustabouts stash their tools there. - [Cop] Well, I'll take a look just the same. - Come on. - All right now folks, take your time. Don't hurry. We don't want ya to hurt yourself. I now give you a galaxy of beauty, a parade of peerless pulchritude, all set to entertain you in new and wondrous ways. A treat for the lovers of real art. A terpsichorean exhibition that makes the old feel young and the young feel better. Six tantalizing morsels of loveliness from every corner of the world, all set to entertain you. I now present to you, Fat.. This ain't a show for boys. This is for adults only. Alright, I now present to you Fatima, favorite of the harem for the Kalif of Baghdad. Alright boys, beat it. Come back in 10 years. (sensuous Arabic music) (cymbals clanging) (crowd chattering) (sensuous music continues) All right, Fatima, thank you very, very much. I now give you from south of the border, a girl who is very well known, the greatest exponent of the rumba dance. Alright, Dolores, show the boys a little rumba. (upbeat rumba music) (rumba music continues) All right honey, that's enough of that. We can't show them too much on the outside. And now I'm going to introduce you to Miss Pineapple of 1953. A girl whose picture you'll see in every magazine in the country. Introducing Miss Pineapple of 1953, or Love on the Dole. (ukulele music) (ukulele music continues) (ukulele music continues) All right, honey, that's enough of a flash. Alright, now ladies and gentlemen, I'll introduction you to the toast of them all, Miss America. (victorious music) - Here comes Reeves. - Tip off Lil yet? - No time. - Go to it as soon as you get the show going. (upbeat jazz music) Hey, Mr. Reeves, always nice to have you around. (upbeat jazz music) (upbeat jazz music continues) - How's business? - Stinks. - Yeah, pays off, doesn't it? - Honey, we haven't got too much time. That's enough for now. We're starting our show on the inside very shortly. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to introduce you to a little girl who isn't from the Bronx, Queens, or Staten, and she don't care for Manhattan. This girl is the Jitterbug from Brooklyn. (upbeat jazz music) - I was talking about the carny business. It was bad enough until your cops came around. Funny thing we're all patting ourselves and you on the back for having the vice probe called off. Then all of a sudden, boom, the place is lousy with the cops. - Yeah, you thought I was putting the cross on ya, eh? They're gonna close the show for a shake down, is that it? - Knowing you, why wouldn't I? Then I find out it's only a murder. - Yeah. You heard. - Yeah, poor Marsh. If it happened a week ago, I could understand. - Our little surprise is Fay from Fayettseville. All right honey, just a little tidbit. Let's go (upbeat jazz music) Now, what you've seen on the outside will be a much greater surprise on the inside. (upbeat jazz music continues) And now the biggest attraction. Blake's Carnival ever had, direct from Paris, the cream of the (speaking in a foreign language), We give you the topper of them all, Gigi from Paris. (sensuous music) That's what I mean, fellas. Look it over. The price of admission is 1 quarter. You can't go wrong. (sensuous music continues) - You're added attraction's a lot a girl. - Come on, let's go to my office. - Well, relax. Matter of fact, I'm out here looking for a girl. Another girl. - I never sold a pat of oleomargarine in my life. - Yeah, well I'm gonna find her before the cops pick her up. You only have six girls now. Always had eight before. - Can't depend on 'em. You know how it is. They play a few shows and disappear. - [Reeves] Yeah, strange how often they disappear after they cross the state line. - Sometimes they come back to the carny. - Yeah, they can't get a better job. - Right this way. Get your tickets here. The show is starting in just a few minutes. - That Gigi, there certainly is something. - [Blake] I'll never forget what you boys did to one of my carny girls. That was a long time ago. You and George. - Yeah, I remember. What happened to her? - Got married. - Now you mentioned that I had her. - Hank. Ask Greg about that deal I asked him to handle, will ya? - What? Oh, oh sure, sure. - This is Hank Saunders, one of our best barkers. Mr. Reeves. - All right. - I'm glad to meet you. Excuse me. (crowd chattering) - Let's go to the office. - Look, you get in there. Ask him where you can apply for a job. Anything, but just stall long enough 'til I can get back for you, okay? - Go on. - Oh, honey. Good luck and be careful. - Bye. (lips smack) (crowd chattering) (calliope music) (barker yelling) (door slams) - You come to the wrong place, deary. - Could I just stay here a few minutes? I, I suddenly felt faint. - Those cops, are they after you? - Look, I haven't done anything. - Sure, sure. - No, they're not looking for me. They're looking for a man. They won't come here. - And how would you know that, deary? - You stay put. One of you certain later on. There's a girl with that reporter, and that's who I want. In case there's any trouble, I'm not here. I'll see Blake and set myself up for a nice, clean alibi, understand? - So it's Reeves you're running away from. (crowd chattering) He's trying to get you across the state line too, huh? - State line? No. No, I know something. Um, there was a girl, a roommate of mine, and she disappeared last year when the carnival was in town. - All right, all right. I'll fix it so the cops won't find ya here. - (gasping) Well, what are you doing? - Get this thing off, get it off. Come on, so's you'll look natural when the cops come in, or Reeves. Come on, hurry up and get it off! Here. There. There, put that on. - Well, it's... Is, is that all you expect me to wear? - Well you ain't deformed are you? - No. - Well put it on, put it on! They'll never look for you in that. - [Janet] Well, why are you doing this? - Well, I'd give anything to skunk that Reeves. You're in trouble, ain't ya? And besides that, Reeves and my boss, they don't see eye to eye. That little man, he's Mr. Big to me. There. There ya are. Now stand off there. Let me look at ya. Hmm. Not bad. (laughs) - You find a coat, you say? - Yes sir. - What color is it? Is it a brown? - Yes sir. - Look in, the look in the pocket, in the, in the breast pocket? Is there a handkerchief in it? - That's right. - What color? - Blue. - Blue handkerchief? - Yes sir. - Come on, come on out of there, and bring out the coat. 'At's a boy, George. (calliope music) - That it? - Come on, let's go. (crowd chattering) (barker yelling) (calliope music) - So you're not going to pay off, eh? (barker yelling) - Better sit down like I said, Mr. Reeves. You're in for a surprise. You're gonna pay me. - What are you getting at? (chair slams) Hurry up. Spill it. - The carny got you, Mr. Reeves? Hurry, hurry, hurry. Never got me. I take my time. - What are you driving at? Whatever it is, get it off your chest. I have more important things to tend to. - I've waited too long for this to hurry now. - You're crazy. What is it? - I'm talking about 20,000 bucks. - 20,000 bucks? - From you to me, for a change. - Oh. So it was you who blackmailed my partner. - Not blackmail. Let's just say a friendly business relationship. - And it was you who got them to call off the investigation. (Blake laughing) What have ya got on him? - Oh, a couple a things. Same things I have on you. That's why you gotta keep paying me for a long time. For a long, long time to come. - So someone tipped you off, eh? And I know who it was. It was Lil. Lil! Is she here? - Lil? - Oh, so she is with you. - She's been with me for months. She's been real sweet and confiding. - So she had to shoot off her mouth, did she? - I wouldn't get any ideas about Lil. Everything she told me is all typed up. And is nice and safe and quiet in a safe deposit box. - I'll take care of that box. And I'll take care of you. But first, I'm going to teach a certain old dame a lesson. (knuckles rapping) - Come in. - We've got his coat. - Yeah, but you didn't find him in it. (laughs) Great work, Sergeant. I want that guy, got that? (paper rustling) - Sorry, sir. That's evidence. - I know it's evidence. I'll look this over later. - I've gotta report this. - It's your neck. - See, Mr. Reeves, I've got a job to do, and I'm going to do it. - Your job is to find Bill Martin, copper. - I know my job, Mr. Reeves. And I don't think it's finding Bill Martin. - You have your orders. Out. (calliope music) (door slams) (lock clicks) (crowd chattering) - Say, when will you dirty-minded cops learn how to knock. This is the lady's dressing room. You can't come flying in and out like this. - Oh, take it easy, sister. We're just looking for a guy. - A guy? In here? - There's a girl with him. And a pretty girl. - All my girls are pretty, and they've all been with this show six months or more. - Hey, Sergeant, Mr. Reeves wants to see you. - [Sergeant] Tell him I'll see him in a few minutes. - Okay. - Say when will you cops stop looking for a cheap thrill? I told you that there was nothing for you in here. - [Sergeant] Thanks for the hospitality, sister. - [Lil] Ah. (door slams) (girls yelling) (feet thudding) (crowd chattering) (door slams) (girls chattering) - Shut up! Shut up, I tell ya. Now, this kid's in trouble. It's her the cops was after. So I want all of you to keep your mouth shut. She's been with this show since we played in Birmingham last April. - Okay. - Sure. - Get it. (girls chattering) You get it? - I got it. - Just make yourself at home, deary. (crowd chattering) (calliope music) - All right, here, here, here, here, here's your chance to make some money, gentlemen. You never know how good you are until you know how good you are. That's an old Roman gladiator saying I just made up, my friend. Well, I'm gonna give you a chance to find out. I'm gonna give you a chance to find out right here and now to win some of this money. Oh my left is my good friend Mr. Bat Milligan. Oh, (laughs) a mere slip of a boy, ladies and gents. Alright, I tell you what I'm going to do, men. I'm going to offer $50, 50 United States dollars, coin of the realm, for the gentleman who will volunteer to stay three short rounds with Bat Milligan, the champion of Oklahoma. Who's going to be the lucky fella. $60, and I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'll make it $20, $20 if you stay one round. What can you lose, my friend? Just a few teeth. And your girl will love that beautiful open smile. Alright, come on. Who's going to volunteer here? How about you? $50, come on, man. Why, if I didn't have this job out here, I'd take advantage of it myself. How about you, young fella? Show the little lady how brave you are. Come on, step right up here. Here's a fine looking young lad. He's big, he's strong, he's got a lot of the old moxie. $60, my friend. I'm gonna make it $60. I'm adding 10, you'll notice. I'm gonna make it $60 for three rounds with my good friend, Mr. Bat Milligan. Shake hands with your worthy opponent, Bat. (crowd laughing) Step right up, and I'll take care of everything out here. Alright, now if you'll just step over and buy your tickets from the little lady on my left. You'll come back with us at the back of the week. But the battle of the century, that's it. Step right over there, my friend. Get the tickets ready. We're gonna have a battle in here like you've never seen before. That's fine. Come right along, yes. (calliope music) - Look like you're in pretty good shape. Can you box? - Yeah. A little, I guess. - Here's what we do, see. We don't try to kill the other guy. We make it look nice and fast. We don't go too hard. And in the third round, I make like a haymaker and you dive, see. And I won't hurt you none. And it's 30 bucks for you. - That's very interesting. - Hello, Hank. - Listen, Bat, Blake says that if you don't make this one look more like a fight, you're gonna be out looking for work. - You want I should bust my brains out for them yokels? - What brains? (laughs) No, you listen to me now. I'm not kidding ya. He's gonna get up on a box and knock you off the payroll with a stake hammer if you don't put up a better fight. - Okay, okay. - Hey, how do I get to meet this character, Blake? - Oh, you'll meet him all right. Don't worry, he'll pay if he feels like it. Hey, ever do any boxing? - I was light heavyweight champion at Princeton University. - Princeton, huh? (laughs) Bat here's a Harvard man. They got his brains in a bottle in the medical college. (laughs) - Don't believe him. He's always kiddin'. - Well, Come on, you guys get organized now. You go on in a few minutes. (sensuous music) (sensuous music continues) (sensuous music continues) (sensuous music continues) (sensuous music continues) (crowd yelling) (gloves thudding) (crowd continues yelling) (gloves thudding) (crowd continues yelling) (gloves thudding) (crowd continues yelling) (gloves thudding) (crowd continues yelling) (crowd booing) (crowd yelling) - What'd you wanna show me up for? You know this is my bread and butter. What'd you wanna do that for? - You threw a couple of punches at me outta left field. Made me sore. Sorry, Bat. I needed the dough. - Hi ya, Boss. - Name's Blake. I own this carny. - Mr. Blake, you're just the man I wanna see. I got some questions I wanna ask you. - Well, this place lousy with cops, and you've got questions? - Well, why tell me about cops? What's it gotta do with me? - Oh, nothing. (calliope music) Only the grapevine has it that the guy was framed. But this kinda talk don't interest you none. - Now wait a minute. I'm not bored. - I think you could use a trip, right? - I uh, might. - Then here's the pitch. Lots a times we can't find anyone to go three rounds with Bat. So you're there as a substitute. You step up maybe four or five times a day. - Go on. - You get to travel free. Tonight we move to Shelbyville, and that's over the state line. What do you say, kid? - And the air's better over there. - Well that's okay, Mr. Blake, but uh, I gotta think about a girl. - You wanna take her along? Why not? - Okay, thanks a lot. But I've still got to ask you a question. - More questions? - Just one. What do you hope to get out of this? - Let's just say I don't like the way a certain Mr. Reeves parts his hair. (sensuous music) (sensuous music continues) (sensuous music continues) (sensuous music continues) (sensuous music continues) (upbeat jazz music) (upbeat jazz music continues) (upbeat jazz music continues) - Where you going? Come on, get going. - I, I can't. - If it took any brains to do this, we wouldn't be doing it. Come on. (Janet gasps) (upbeat jazz music continues) (upbeat jazz music continues) (upbeat jazz music continues) (upbeat jazz music continues) (upbeat jazz music continues) (calliope music) (girls chattering) - Hey, hey, hey, hey. Wait just a second. Only six girls in the show, you make seven. How come? Just a second. What's this? Janet. (gasps) - Lil! - Yeah, Lil. - After 20 years, you're interfering with my life again, are you? Why you! (calliope music) (door slams) Hey ah, the girl you want's in there. But I don't want her arrested just yet. She'll look great on the witness stand. Your job is to find Bill Martin, and I don't want him shot. I want him alive. Understand? Alright. (crowd chattering) (calliope music) Wait! Get this girl over to your office trailer. I wanna talk to her alone. - Here ya are, kid, take a sip of that. And don't you worry about that Reeves. I know enough about that guy to hang him. - He knows I'm here. And when Bill comes, he'll have him picked up. Now I've gotta find some way to tell Bill. - What's one guy to you? You can get another. - Leave the kid alone, will you? - It's none of your business. What are you protective for? You have her sneak around here, and all the cops'll be on our neck. - Shut up! Leave the kid alone! (screams) (girls screaming) - Got trouble enough! Sit down. Straighten up this rat hole fast. - And I tried to keep her away from that kid, and make her let her alone. - The cops know you're here. You gotta get out. - Hey listen Blake, you can't push this kid into the hands of the cops. She knows something. - You're right, Lil, I certainly ain't for the cops to find. But I ain't going to leave her here either. I'm going to hide her on my own trailer. I know where your boyfriend is too, kid. - Then please tell him not to come after me here. Clay Reeves'll pick him up if he does. You've gotta tell him to stay away. - He killed a guy. - He didn't! - That's what Reeve says. - Reeve's a liar! He did it and I can prove it. - Okay. Lil, have one of the girl get this kid's clothes together. - I'll take her over myself. Go on. - You're staying here. All you girls gotta be here when the cops come in. Get it? - Yeah, I get it. (girls chattering) - There's a guy around here looking for you. He's pretty mad. - Yeah, I know. Reeves. - Yeah. Maybe you'd better hide awhile. We'll pick you up across the state line. - I'm stayin'. - Come on. (calliope music) (door slams) (calliope music) Take it easy honey. You'll be all right. - How long do I have to stay here? - Just 'til we get rid of the cops. (door slams) Take it easy. Relax. So you're the girl Clay Reeves is after. - Yes. - It's dangerous business to get in Reeves way. He don't kid around. - I know. But I don't understand. - Better that way. Forget what you know and you'll live longer. - Look, I can't stay quiet and let him go on, and- - Better try it. Anyway, until we get to Shelbyville. That's what I told your boyfriend. - You've seen Bill? - Not only seen him, but hired him. He's comin' with the show. - Oh, that's wonderful. - Funny thing, he never mentioned you. Thinking of saving his own skin, I guess. - Look, I don't believe it. He was probably trying to protect me. - Look kid, I'm sticking my neck out for that boy, doing what I'm doing. If I get him across the state line, what's in it for me? - I don't know. We haven't very much money. - I wasn't thinkin' of money. Okay, okay. I'm going now. I'm locking the door. If anybody knocks, don't answer, understand? (door slams) (crowd chattering) (barker yelling) - Bat Mulligan is some player. - Yeah. - Okay if I go over and pick up my time, Cook? - Yeah, Blake told me you were gonna shill for me. Sure, go ahead, but be back in half an hour. Then mix in with the crowd, and if I don't get a sucker, I'll pick you. (crowd chattering) (barkers yelling) (calliope music) (crowd chattering) (knuckles rapping) - Another yokel. Go on, get outta here! - Oh, excuse me. I'm looking for a girl. - Ah yeah, you and how many others. - No please, her name is Janet. - I don't know any Janet, I tell ya. Now go on, get outta here, I mean it! - Where do you think she is? Won't you help? (crowd chattering) (calliope music) (barker yelling) - All right, Martin, get 'em up. And don't turn around. (barker yelling) - All right. - Turn around and slow. (girls yelling) - All right, girls, all right. (calliope music continues) (barker yelling) (gun blasts) - Open this door. Lil, I'll shut you up this time for good. Lil, you loused me up for the last time. - I'm surprised at you, chief. - What are you after? - No control over yourself at all. Trying to break in a girl's dressing room. Why bother trying to get Lil, when I could tell you where you could find a girl who really knows who killed George Marsh. - You're way too smart. Where is she? - Smarter than you think. (calliope music) She's in my trailer. - Relax my dear, I just wanna talk to you. - I'm sorry, we don't talk the same language. - Oh yes, I think we do. This young chap, Bill Martin, the one who killed my friend, Marsh, we've got him. - I don't believe you. - He did kill him, didn't he? - No. - You're positive? - Yes. - How can you be so sure? - Because he just couldn't. - Oh. (laughs) He just couldn't, eh? - No, he just couldn't. - Well that won't stand up very well in court. - Well, I know something that will. - Oh, you do? But what do you know that will stand up in court? - I'll tell it to the judge. - You'll tell it to me. (Janet screaming) Now! Now! (Reeves thuds) Don't you get! (Janet gasping) (Reeves yelling) (hand slapping) (Janet screaming) (Reeves yelling) (Janet grunting) You'll tell me! - No! - You'll tell me! And you'll take that! Tell me! If you don't tell me, and I... (Reeves grunts) (bodies thudding) (fist slams) (chair bangs) (Reeves grunting) Put that gun, give it (muffled)! - Bill! (Reeves grunts) (fist smacks) (Bill grunts) - Ah, darling. Ah, you poor kid. You shouldn't have seen that. (calliope music) - [Janet] Oh, honey. - Hey, what were you gonna do (laughs) with this little thing? - Oh, I don't know. I thought maybe if you needed me I could help. - Yeah, this is just great. - Oh, Bill. - What? - Come here. - I got a couple of scratches? - The light. - The guy's a tough character. Now we've gotta get out of here. - Where? - We gotta find Blake. - Oh no, Bill. I'm sure that it had to be Blake that gave Reeves the key to this trailer when I was in it. - Yeah? Well why would Blake send me here? Ah, if we find the answer to that, we're really getting somewhere. Now we've got to find Blake. We can't wait 'til we get to Shelbyville to find out what's wrong in this rotten little carny. Because Reeves won't be there, darling. - Bill. - Yeah? - I think Lil knows the answer. - Why? - Well, she was telling me something about the state line. And I'm sure that they're all mixed up in your vice investigation. - Gone! (Janet gasps) (calliope music continues) (crowd chattering) - Bill! - Yeah. Janet, I don't want you here. It's not safe here. I gotta get Reeves. Now you get into that dressing trailer and wait for me. (calliope music continues) (barker yelling) (Bill groaning) (calliope music continues) (calliope music continues) - Hey! (calliope music continues) - Hey, Boss, how about hiding him under the stage? He'll be safe there. - Good idea. - Wait, come on. - Where we going? - You'll be all right. Alright now look, get under here. Get under the stage. Go on, hurry up. Get under there, now look, I want you to stay under there and shut up. Above all, shut up! - We'll be back for ya later. Come on Hank. - Okay. (calliope music continues) (upbeat jazz music) - He was right here. Out cold. - Can't be far away. - That's right. Lets find him. (upbeat jazz music continues) (Bill groaning) - Go away. - But it's me. (calliope music) (door slams) - Lil! Who? - Oh, forget it. - I don't understand. Lil, was it Reeves? Well why should he shoot you? - Because I know too much. That's what it gets you. Haven't I told you cops not to come busting in like this? - All right, lady, you're under arrest. I'm taking you down to the station. - Me? What for? - You for harboring a fugitive, and you for being a fugitive. - You are doing no such thing. You and Clay Reeves, I'm just tired of- - Oh, ho-ho, lady, lady, are you resisting arrest? - Resisting arrest, well you're a disgrace to the uniform you wear. - All right, lady, just go on, go on. - You're a disgrace to the uniform you wear, you and all the others who have double crossed people for Clay Reeves. - Oh, save your breath. - I won't save it. - Go on, lady. - Why don't you arrest Clay Reeves? - I'm listening. - You don't dare. - Maybe I would arrest him if I had a good reason for it. - Murder, assault, and this. That's a bullet wound, Sergeant. - Did Reeves do that? - Yeah. - Why? - Target practice. - It might help us all if you told him. - I won't talk 'til I see a lawyer. Come on, are you going to arrest me, let's go. (calliope music) - Relax, lady. Long time I've been waiting to get something on Reeves, something definite with witnesses. It looks like this time I've really got it. - Oh? (calliope music) - Most cops are on a spin trying to do a job. But I've gotta have plenty of ammunition to pin it on Reeves. - I'll give you enough ammunition to bust this town wide open. Clay Reeves has been gunnin' for me for years now. My number was up the minute he knew I was here. - Why? (calliope music continues) - Because Clay Reeves is somebody else's stooge. And I know who that somebody is. - Are you sure you know what you're really talking about? - You mean the big shot? - Uh-huh. - Sure I know, because if you're looking for him, I'm his wife. (calliope music continues) (sensuous music) (patron whistles) (crowd chattering) (Bill groaning) (sensuous music continues) (sensuous music continues) (Bill groaning) - Do me a favor, do me a favor, will ya? Don't tell anybody that you've see me here, okay? I'll love you for it. (calliope music) (Bill groaning) - Look, let me find Bill and then we'll give ourselves up, and give you all the information together. - I can't wait for that. Let me know what you know now. (door slams) - There's a robber man backstage. - What did he look like? - Who? - The robber man. - Oh, I heard a noise, so I look under the stage, and there he is sort of, you know, gives me the eye, and tells me to keep quiet. - It's Bill. - Let's go. - I'll be dressed and ready when you get back. (calliope music) - Bill? - It's no use. - Bill! (calliope music continues) Can you see anything? - No. - Bill! - If he heard you, he'd come out, wouldn't he? - Oh, I'm sure he would. (calliope music continues) (crowd chattering) - Where's Blake? - Hey, what are you doin' here? - Where's Blake? I wanna see him. - All right, all right, I'll get him for ya. - Come on, let's go. - No, now wait a minute, wait a minute. You better duck in the tent. There are a lot of cops around. Go ahead, get in there. - How do I know... Go on, get in. Get outta sight. (calliope music continues) I'll check ya out later, Red. - Bill, Bill, it's Janet! You can come out now. - [Bill] Janet, where are you at? - Bill! - Where at? - Bill, back here, behind the stage. - Oh, baby. - Martin! - It's all right, Bill. - Wait a minute, this guy's one of Reeves' men. - But he's on our side. - Oh yeah? Or using you to get to me. - Look, Bill, you want to tell the truth, tell it now. He's going to arrest Reeves. - Takes a lot of guts to arrest Reeves. - Just let's have the facts, Martin. - I hope you're right, Janet. - Your managing editor, George Marsh, was killed this afternoon. Shot. - Yeah, so we heard. - Where were you? (calliope music) - Okay, lemme give you a quick rundown. I guess I might as well trust somebody. In the first place, my boss, Marsh, did not fire me. As a matter of fact, just before he was killed, he was the one that sent me out here to this carnival to rundown a clue he had that Reeves was gonna be here tonight at 7:30. This is the first connecting link we had between Reeves and the carnival. And my job was to get to Mr. Big. I was just following a good lead, that's all. - And I, I was on the switchboard at the newspaper, and I heard a voice. I knew it was Blake. He was talking to Marsh. And that was after Bill had left. - Yeah, I was waiting down the street in my car. I was taking Janet to the carnival, with me. - And I was going, I was gonna meet him as soon as I could get through. - Yeah, when she came down, we saw Reeves entering the building and then driving out here into the car. I tune in the police calls. I do that all the time. That's when I heard my description wanted for murder. So don't you see? It had to be Reeves. - Well it must have been. Now you're sure of this, aren't you? - Yeah. Only thing is, my job isn't finished. I gotta find out who's giving Reeves his orders. - We've both got a job to do. Come on! - Come on, Janet. (door slams) - Just like a gentlemen. Don't knock, just bust right in. - Shut up. I wanna talk to Gigi. - Well, there she is. (groans) - What's with you? - I just made friends with a bullet. - Reeves? - Mm. - I'm gonna take her to a doctor. You wait here for me. Come on, Lil. (clown laughing) (crowd chattering) (calliope music) (calliope music continues) - Look out! (Lil groans) (gun blasts) (Blake groans) (clown continues laughing) (calliope music continues) (Blake thuds) - [Bill] Drop it, Reeves. - [Reeves] Don't! (men grunting) - (grunts) Drop it! At a boy, Sarge. There's his other hand. (men thudding) - He pulled his gun first! You saw it, Sergeant! - Tell that in court. I'm arresting you. - Make it murder, Sarge. He killed Marsh. - Marsh? - Marsh? Marsh, Martin shot Marsh in revenge for- - It's a lie, Clay Reeves. You killed him, because for 15 years you've been wanting to step into his shoes. - Listen, it was Marsh who was back of Reeves in this whole rotten vice racket, wasn't it? I was getting too close, right? - Yes, he did it for me. He was always looking after me. And if you want to know, Marsh was the big shot. - [Janet] Well, no, he, he couldn't have been. - Oh wait a second, honey. It figures. Remember you were on the switchboard, and you heard Blake call Marsh to tell him Lil was out here at the carnival. Remember, he called Marsh, and yet it was Reeves here who came out the kill her. Obviously it was Marsh's plan to have Reeves do the killing and me to take the rap for it, right Mr. Reeves? - Try and prove it. - Sure, I can prove it. That's the easy way for you to fill Marsha's shoes. - Hon, you've gotta get to the hospital. - No, no, I'm, I'm going to stay here for awhile. (crowd chattering) (clown laughing) (calliope music) - What about us? - You mean you want me to tell you what to do? Come on. - I guess we don't need any instruction sheet, do we, babe. (clown laughing) (clown continues laughing) That guy's laughter's driven me crazy for the last couple of hours, but he sure sounds good now, doesn't he? - He sure does. (calliope music continues) (clown continues laughing) (clown continues laughing) (calliope music continues)