( crowd chattering ) Got it all picked out, Alice. A little isle in the South Pacific. Every day is a holiday with beautiful birds yapping their heads off and the monkeys jumping all over you and the sun burning you to a crisp. That's a paradise. Don't be a shrinking violet, Alice. You come there with me and I promise you-- A Swiss on rye. Don't forget the mustard. Not only that, but they got coconut trees I'm telling you, Alice, the place is just stinking with coconut trees. You can have coconut for breakfast, lunch and dinner. And if it gets too hot, hurricane comes along and cools you off. And if the hurricane is late, you go to a sleepy lagoon and you go swimming in there-- And a bowl of clam chowder. Don't forget the crackers. You sure got an imagination, Slip. I'm glad you appreciate my poetical soul. I'd appreciate it even more if you got a job. You mean if I got a job and made some money, you'd become wedlock to me and come away to my dream island? Alice! How you doing, pal? Doing pretty good till you came along. Where have you been, Sach? I haven't seen you all week. Oh, I got a job, I've gone straight. Special investigator for the Grogan Elite Detective Agency, shadowing with or with our cause cases. Criminal cases, domestic cases, civil cases, 24 hours service. Even working nights. Gee, a private eye. You mean a public nuisance. He ain't nothing but an office boy for that phony gun shoot Grogan. Yeah, there's nothing wrong with Grogan. He's solved some of the most mysterious cases in Brooklyn. Grogan couldn't solve a two piece jigsaw puzzle. In order to be a real detective, you got to have a deductible mind. You got to have the power of treason. Just the same, Sach has a job and that's more than you can say for yourself, Slip Mahoney. So there. Oh, I almost forgot. Forgot what? You're right, Grogan is a rat. And what made you change your so-called mind? He fired me. Why? What happened? What did he fire you for? Well, last week Grogan gets a Park Avenue case, a chick by the name of Brenda Foster. Now this Foster chick is not only loaded with class, but is also loaded with ice, jewelry to you. And she has a maid who was supposed to be stealing the jewelry. See? So they sent for the private eye, old bloodhound Sach. So I put my nose to the ground and I find out that this Brenda chick is not only stealing her own jewelry but has planted it on the maid. Then the maid didn't really steal the jewelry after all? No, the only thing the maid stole was Brenda's boyfriend and was she mad. Sach, I'm proud of you. Always defending the underdog. Maid was no dog. She was a nice-looking chick. And you cleared her. Sounds like a nice piece of detecting to me. You know what behooves me is that if this chiseler Grogan had a justified bone in his head, he would not only not have fired you, he'd have given you a raise. A raise. A raise! He didn't even pay me last week's salary. Grogan didn't pay you last week's salary? Nope. Hope you know that that's against the interstate rule. And I hope you're also aware of the fact that it's a fracture of your bill of rights, so therefore it also behooved me that maybe we should go and see this Grogan character immediately so that we may personally collect your radioactive pay. Let's behoovin'. See you later, Alice. So long. Come on, gang. Elite Detective Agency. Hmm. Hey, chief. What did you make the gang stay downstairs for? Grogan's a tough guy. Look, I can whittle Grogan down to our size, you understand? This guy has not only got flat feet, but he's got a tin ear. Let's go in. Look, Grogan, there's a couple of things I'd-- Hey, Grogan. Probably hiding out. Tell me, Sach, how much money did Grogan owe you? Including overtime? Yeah, including overtime. And holidays? Yeah, holidays, too. Oh, $7. I knew it. He took my money and flew to Mexico. I don't care if he flew to Timbuktu! We're gonna sit right here and wait for him. Here? Yes, here! Don't you know that criminals always return to the scene of the crime. That's what I'm afraid of. ( knocking on door ) Oh. Oh. Excuse me, but this is the Elite Detective Agency, isn't it? Sure. Day and night service, too. Oh, Mr. Grogan. I'm not Mr. Grogan, talk to him. Uh, how do you do? Mr. Grogan, you must help me. I was just looking for a clue. Lady, you seem to be laboring under a misapprehension. I'm full of apprehensions. I'm out of my mind with worry-- If I was the right man. But you're the very man I need. I'm in trouble. But I'm a little busy. I know how busy you are, but please take time. Well, time, yeah, that's what we need, time for a little explaining. Oh, thank you. I'll explain everything I can. Yes, have a seat. Um, now, Miss... Webster. Webster. My name is Selena Webster. Now, Miss Selena, that is, Miss Webster, the pleasure is mutual and vice versa. What seems to be your problem? It's my young sister Eleanor. She's been missing for the last 2 days, and I know something tragic has happened. Oh, now, now. Here, here. There, there. ( indistinct ) I'm sorry. But I'm terribly worried about Eleanor. She's always been so impetuous and now I fear she's in trouble. Do you think you could find her? We'd like to, lady, but we ain't got the time. Come on, Slip. Let's go, hurry. You have to pardon my partner. He always gets a little obstreperous when he sees a woman of the opposite sex. Now where were we? I don't know, but we should have been there 5 minutes ago. Please proceed, Miss Webster. As I said my sister's name is Eleanor, Eleanor Williams. Her husband Tom was a mining engineer, was lost on a prospecting trip in South America. Oh, South America? We'll hop right down there and get him. Get over there and sit down. Take it away. Regular bloodhound, got a very sensitive nose but yapping all the time. Can't you see the young lady is trying to give us some of the unobtrusive details of this case? Now, Miss Webster, you were saying I believe that this young man Tom was ruminated lost. Yes. That was 3 years ago, but only 2 weeks ago we received word that Tom is still alive and he's coming home. That news, of course, must have been very invigorating to your sad sister. At first she was overjoyed by the news, but then she became strangely nervous. Two nights ago she failed to come back to our apartment. I haven't seen her since. She simply vanished. Oh, if you could only help me. You know, this promises to be one of the most interesting cases that I've ever been on. It's the only one. Uh... pardon me, but could you give us any idea where this Eleanor might have went? I mean, I don't like to ask you too many questions, but maybe you could name a few of the spots that she most frequently frequented. Well, no, you see, she lives with me. I'm afraid that's all the information I can offer. Step down, next case. Oh, wait a minute. There is something else. A man. Dr. Rolfe Carter who she's been seeing. Oh, a doctor, huh? Maybe she's sick. Well, no, he isn't that type of doctor. He's more of a spiritual adviser. A psychic. Oh, a sidekick. Slip and I've been sidekicks for years. Sach, you don't seem to get the proper deportation of the lady's words. She's trying to tell you that this guy was a fortuneteller, a crystal ball crasher. Ain't that right, lady? Yes, that's right. When Tom was reported missing, Eleanor was brokenhearted. Then she went to Dr. Carter for spiritual comfort, but later she stopped. And for some strange reason, after we received the cablegram that Tom was returning, she started going to Dr. Carter again. But two nights ago she disappeared. Just disintegrated into thin air, huh? Yes. That's very intriguing. There's one thing I'd like to ask you about this crystal ball Casanova. Where does he make his habitude? Where does he live? Oh. Oh, his office is around Wessey Street-- about the middle of the 900 block. Mm-hmm, Wessey Street, huh? That's our first exhibit, Sach. We'll call it exhibit Y. Make a note of that. No better place to start than at the beginning. Well, what do you say, we start our search, Sach? Oh, just a minute. It might help if you knew what Eleanor looks like. What's the matter with you? Why don't you use your head? What did I do now? Well, you're supposed to take care of these minors details, ain't you? Yeah, I ain't. She's about 23, fairly young. And she's very attractive. Mm-hmm. I have a photograph of her. This case is getting more interesting by the minute. She's 5'6" and has blue eyes and red hair. She weighs about 115. I think that's all. ( whistles ) Sister, that's enough. I don't want you to worry about a thing. Now I got this whole case in the hollow of my head. We have a little motto around here, you know? We always get our man, even if it's a woman. Would you like a retainer? Oh, no, no, we won't retain her, we'll just find her. No, no. I mean a deposit. Uh, would... would $50 do the trick? No, no. No, no, there, there. Here, here. Here, here. Here, here. Do the trick? Lady, for $50 we'll give you a whole magic show. Including a kiss. Hey, did you take that lady's 50 bucks? I didn't take it, she gave it to me. That's my usual detaining fee. You don't seem to realize that you're now addressing Slip Mahoney, ace detective. Slip, if you're such a good detective, what are you reading that book for? Well, I-- I-- just sort of brushing up, taking a refreshing course. Ah, you don't know nothing about detecting. Oh, I don't. I just happen to know all about it, that's all. Let's take a hypothetical case. There's a murder, you understand? So you go out and grab up a few exhibits, then you go out and get the murderer and the murderer gets a lawyer. Lawyer brings in a writ of habeas corpus and sets the murderer free. But then you drag in your corpus delicti. That's your ace in the hole. So you get the murderer back again for a retrial. And he brings this lawyer with him and you call in a grand jury, see, and they examine him. And the lawyer objects. Then they cross examine him and the lawyer objects, then you indict him and the lawyer objects. So then they hang him. Gee, he knows detecting real good, huh? Yeah, I sort of stumped for a minute. The way I figured all you need to go into this detecting racket is to be able to detect things. And I also figured with my cerebrainium, in the medical manner of speaking, I can detect things as good as Grogan. So we're all gonna be known as the Mahoney Detecting Corporation. I'm Mahoney, you're a corporation. Now, Slip... ( indistinct chatter ) All right, you boys seem to be overlooking a little matter of 50 samolians that I hold here in my right hand. How long have we been in this business? About 5 minutes. 5 minutes, 50 samolians, how much is that? $10 a minute. Put that $10 a minute on a 40-hour a week basis, and what have you got? Income tax trouble. We can afford it, we'll be loaded. We'll be living in the best hotels in town, way up on a roof in one of those sweet penthouses. We'll each have a car of our own with chauffeurs. We'll buy a couple of yachts and have chauffeurs for them, too. I'm telling you, boys, you better think this thing over. Hey, Slip, we're your new corporation. Congratulations. Yeah, what do we do now? We're gonna drop in on exhibit A. What's that? Exhibit A happens to be Dr. Rolfe Carter. Let's go. Dr. Rolfe Carter? Gee, Bobby's in there long time, ain't he? Yeah. I hope nothing happened to him. Don't worry about Bobby. He'll come out all right. It's clever deduction, chief. Did you learn anything? Yeah, I learned I can bounce. Nobody can treat my friends like that. I'm fighting mad! Whitey! You talked me out of it. I see this requires a little muscles. Hold me glasses, can't you? Okay. Watch yourself, Gabe. Excuse me, sonny. I'll murder this guy if I can see him. Well, who's next? You? Mm-mmm. Chuck? Mm-mmm. My friend Whitey? Mm-mmm. Well, who? You. Ooh. Get going. Bell's out of order. Oh, Sach, you wouldn't want to let the corporation down, would you? Yeah. Get up there! Don't worry, I won't be long. ( speaking in foreign language ) The next time you come meddling in my affairs, we may not be so gentle. Nice work, Escadona. ( speaking in foreign language ) You know I'm beginning to think that guy don't like company. Well, you should do your thinking a little sooner. Ah, it's no use, that guy won't talk. He wants to fight. That just makes me doubly sure that he knows where Eleanor is. There is only one thing left for us to do. What's that? We shadow him. Don't he have his own shadow? Shadow means to follow him, to tail him, and then boom. I'm on my back again. No, you dummy, he leads us right to the dame. Now gather around while I give you my personal constructions. Hey, you's mind if I have my glasses back? Listen. Whitey, you come with me, you understand? Oh, boy, thanks, Sach. Oh, it's quite all right, quite all right. Let's go with Chuck. ( engine revving ) ( whistles ) There's the signal. Contact. Right. ( engine sputtering ) Good old dependable. You can always depend on it to break down just when we need it. Well, don't feel too bad. Carter is still being covered by AK9. What's AK9? AK9 is Sach-- Don't forget he's had a little experience in this business. I'm afraid they don't call me Sherlock Holmes Mahoney for nothing, you know, realizing there might be difficulty if I put AK9 where he'd be of instant use. Now that's the difference between failure and success in this detective business. What is? Having a wide awake organization with wide awake personnel. ( tires screeching ) Well, it looks like Sach let us down. AK9. Yeah, there goes our first case. There goes my penthouse. My yacht with a chauffeur. I told him if he got in a jam, to call us here. ( telephone ringing ) Hello? Hello. Oh, hello, this is AK9 reporting. Roger. Oh, this ain't Roger, this is Sach. I was just using a technical term. Go ahead, AK9. My feet hurt. That Mr. Carter really walks fast. I followed him-- Wait a minute. Hey, Gabie. Get ready to take some notes. Roger. Okay, precede, AK9. Trail suspect to Wentworth Arms, 801, Wooster Street. Suspect entered main lobby and went up an elevator. You got that, Gabe? Roger. Then what happened? I don't know. I missed the elevator. I had to walk up. I walked so hard my nose started to bleed. Now hold on to your hat, we'll be right there. Okay, chief. Give me those notes. Wait a minute, I didn't sign them yet. Give them to me. There he is! Where did he go? Who? Who? Carter, who else? He went in the elevator. What floor did he stop at? How do I know? I wasn't on it. The light, where did the light stop? I think it was five. Five? Or the number that comes after five. Six? Does six come after five? I think so. Boy, what will he think of next. Hey, we're figuring this thing out like real detectives, ain't we? No, we ain't. Get over here. Hey, Gabe. Huh? You and Whitey stay down in lobby. Chuck, you and Bobby get down to basement, keep your eyes open. Sach and I are going up to the fifth floor. Hey, chief. What? Can I let go of my hat now? Oop! Can't even remember a little number. You know, I always have trouble with numbers. I can only count up to 10, and I learned that on my fingers. What's the matter? Ain't you got no toes? Chief-- Shh. WOMAN: I told you those parties wouldn't do you no good. MAN: All right, so you told me, so what? Some guy's getting by his wife. MAN: I can do what I want with my dough. WOMAN: Your dough? MAN: Yeah. ( woman laughs ) That's-- ( baby crying ) Quiet as a mouse. What a mouse. I think we better spread out. Which way do I go? Follow your nose. No sneeze, sixth floor. MAN: No, no. Oh, please! No. No. No. No. No, please. ( gunshot ) Operator? Operator, get me the police. Is this the police? Hey, hey, just a second. I want to report a shooting. I'm calling from the-- Apartment 5C. Hey, look, lady. Yes. A man has been shot. We're holding a suspect here. Wait a minute. I wouldn't move if I were you. But I didn't have nothing to do with this. Save your explanations for the police. Better save a couple yourself. You're the guy that's got the gun. Don't be ridiculous. I happened to be the manager of this apartment house. I heard the young lady scream. You did, eh? Red hair, blue eyes, 5'6". Hey, you're Eleanor Williams. How did you know my name? Same way I got this picture. And where did you get the picture? Through Miss Webster. Miss Webster? Who is Miss Webster? Selena Webster. Your sister, remember? You must be mistaken, I have no sister. This man is insane. That's a matter of debate. But don't try to tell me you don't know Miss Webster 'cause she just got through giving me 50-- to go out and find you. You can put that eggbeater away now, junior. You see, I'm a detective on a private case. This girl's been missing for 2 days. Nonsense. I've seen Mrs. Williams every day for the past week. Come again? That's absolutely correct. Every day for the past week. And if you're a detective as you claim, I'd like to see your credentials. Uh, just a minute. I'd like to ask you one more question-- Your credentials, please. Well, I must have left them in my other pants. You don't look like you've got another pair of pants. How did you know? Just as I thought. ( siren wailing ) The police will be here any moment. Somebody must have told you. I suppose you're gonna tell me now that you don't know that horizontal body over there either? I never saw him before in my life. You've asked enough questions. All right, so I'll answer. One, it's Dr. Rolfe Carter and she knows it. She's lying, just making up a bunch of lubrications. ( knocking on door ) MAN: Open in the name of the law! I hope you enjoy the ride. Fellas, grab him! ( gunshot ) The cops were getting out of their car just as we got in the elevator. All right, get him out in the hall. All right. I think you better come with me. Get going, come on. ( indistinct ) Hey, mister! Hey, mister! Hurry up, I'll see you guys later. Cops are coming. I... Cops! Cops! He went down in that elevator. Who? The murderer and he took Mrs. Williams with him. Come on, boys, block the exit. Pick up those kids, too. You're gonna sing and I ain't in a mood to give you any music either. I'll talk later to the police. All right, if you won't talk, I will, as soon as your husband gets here. What do you know about Tom? Uh, now you're asking the questions, huh? Might be we both got something to say, but ladies first. All right. What do you want to know? Why did you say you didn't know Carter or Selena? Don't you understand, I couldn't afford to have my name involved in a murder? Tom would ask questions that I can't answer. Maybe I can answer a few of them, if you tell me who demolished Carter. You know that better than anybody else. Thanks for the compliment. There are a few things I know better than anybody else. But killing don't come under that category. You're one of Armand's man, aren't you? Who's Armand? Who's Armand? Just a name, nothing more. I'm laying the odds that there's plenty more. If you really want to straighten this thing out, meet me tomorrow night at 11:30, Louie's sweet shop. L-o-u-i-e-s. You'll find the address in the phonebook. Knock four times fast. I'll be there. And won't you please try to keep my name out of this thing? I'll do the best I can. What will I tell your sister Selena? I told you Selena isn't my sister. And I'm beginning to believe you. COP: I'll cover the hall, you try the basement. Here comes the militia. See you later. Nothing here, miss. What am I hacking around here for? I should have been closed hours ago. More lights, more expense. And they sit around and don't spend a penny. So what can I do? Throw them out, that's a good idea. What time is it now? It's half past throw them out. Boys, please, get out of here. I'm hungry. Mama is waiting me for dinner. Dinner gets cold, Mama gets hot. You don't know how to handle Mama. You don't know Mama. ( knocking on door ) Answer the door, Louie. Answer the door? Comes more people, comes less business. Answer the door. ( chuckles ) Listen, please, whatever you do, don't stay too long. What a character. Look who's talking. We got the information, kid. Slip, I want you to meet a mutual friend of mine. Lennie the Meatball. Lennie the Meatball, it's a pleasure. Likewise. I ain't too sure. Why? What's the matter? You're wearing a hat, you're a tommy. I got word you're wanted for a bump job. I didn't do it. Ha! That's what I always say, too. By the way I want you to meet my right-hand man, Sach. I don't want no part of that guy. Why not? Uh, he's been up the river so many times they call him showboat. He can also toss a herring to a chasm tell whether it's gonna land heads or tails and give us other information equally as useful. That's why he's worth a sawbuck to us. Oh, that's different. Greetings, Meaty. Sach, Grammar school, class of '46 San Quentin, class of '42. Oh, college boy. All right, guys, start asking questions. Let me get out of here. What was this guy Dr. Rolfe Carter? He was a shut-eye crystal man. Shut-eye crystal man? Translation. He's a phony fortuneteller, he thinks he's got the power. Yeah, with the syndicate he belonged to that really had the power. What syndicate? The big one. The one that takes care of all the fortunetellers in town. You mean that racket is organized, too? But natch, and Armand the headman, he's strictly big time. Armand? Yeah, he's got operations in town all sewed up. Armand. That's the name that Eleanor mentioned to me. By the way where does this zany zombie hang out? He's got a penthouse at Shelton Plaza. Well, how do we crack the place? Easy, but expensive, cost you 25 bucks just to hang your hat up in his joint, and for the aforementioned 25 clams, he also throws in a 50 men consultation and a quick gander into his crystal ball. That's very interesting. Mr. Meatball, you served your purpose more than somewhat and I derive great pleasure in handing you the 10 clams that we promised you. Thanks. Don't spend it all in one place. Well, so long, fellas. ( whistles ) So long, Meatball. Goodnight. I'm glad to see you go. Oh, I give up, I give up! Oh, senorita! I thought it was a copper. Well, so long, Louie. Goodnight, goodnight. Alice. Oh, Slip, I knew you were in trouble and I knew you'd come here, I wanted to help. A woman's place is with her man. Uh, he needs a dame like I need a new head. You could use one. So it happens that Alice got here at a very opportune moment. In fact she arrived in the click of time. You got a compact with you? Yeah, sure. I'm next, my nose is shiny also. Thanks. Hey, Louie. Yeah? I want you to do me a favor. What? Get one of your magazines and cut out a picture of a woman who'll fit in this compact. A woman, you mean-- No, Lou. What price magazine? I don't care about the price. TOGETHER: I'll pay you later. Hey, be careful with that, it's the only one I have. I sure will. I'll pay you later. I'll pay you later. What are you gonna do with it? That's what a detective in me bust out-- if I can get a particular set of fingerprints on that compact, I can see that a certain murder rap is hung on somebody that deserves it a little more than I do. But, Slim darling, nobody deserves it more than you do. I said murder rap, not marriage rap. Listen, Alice, this is important. I'm gonna make you operator AK13 in this little cooperation of mine. There's a few little details that I'd like you to care of. I'm sorry, Dr. Armand cannot make any appointment for the next 2 weeks, no. Look, as I told you before this is a matter of great despondency. I'm terribly sorry, but as you can see for yourself, Dr. Armand's time is completely booked. Of course, if a cancellation comes in. This is tougher than trying to get an apartment. Look, Sach, would you mind standing over yonder a minute? I'm gonna do a little frenching with this girl. I think perhaps I can make a touche. Huh-huh. Would you mind looking at that album again and seeing if you can't find a cancellation? Well, maybe I could arrange something for next week instead of 2 weeks from now. Oh, maybe you could do a little more deranging. Perhaps, sir, tomorrow. Good thing I didn't want to see him yesterday, I don't think I could afford it. Look, baby, I'm just gonna ask you one more question. Do you think we could see Dr. Armand in the next 15 minutes? Maybe. Dr. Armand fee is $25. Yeah, I know. In advance, please. In advance, well, 5, 10, 15, 20... Thank you. I think the doctor will see you in a moment. That's better. Well, it's all settled. How did you do it, chief? Oh, I just turned on the charm and I makes the touche. Touche? You mean touche 50 bucks worth. You rang for Hasson? Yes, Hasson. Present these gentlemen to the master. Follow me. Hasson? I had a friend by the name of Hasson once, but he hasn't been around lately. Oop. This way, gentlemen. Please be seated. What is your name? My name? It's, um... Well, I... You have a name, of course. Oh, oh, yes. It's Robert. Robert Westerfield. Westerfield? That's what I said. What is it I can do for you, Mr. Westerfield? Well, I had an aunt who had the misfortune of dying. She left me $10,000. She was my maiden aunt, she lived in Brooklyn. Yeah, she won the dough betting against the Brooklyn Dodgers. I have reliable information that you have a direct line to the spiritualistic world. And if you are so declined, you can advise me as to how to invest a piece of dough of those proportions. Yes. It is possible for me to contact a spirit of your aunt. If she's interested in you, perhaps she will use her spiritual insight to advise you on an investment. Boy, what a racket, huh? I beg your pardon? He means raquet, that's from the French word roquet, meaning business, establishment, etcetera. I am French, yet I know of no such word. He don't mean French, he means Slobbovian, lower Slobbovian. Would it help if you saw a picture of my aunt, as she was? Yes, it might. Oh, yes, that was very helpful indeed, Mr. Westerfield. Now we will look into the crystal. I see... I see a man. A man? A short man. If he's in there, he'll have to be short. He's heading for trouble. He's heading for trouble because he's not capable of minding his own affairs. His name is spelt out in the mystic crystal. It is Slip Mahoney. I don't see nothing. Look into the crystal for yourself. Search him, Hasson. Oh, nobody is gonna search me-- Sach, do something. I've seen these letters. They're not the ones I want. I think you'd better answer some questions for me, Mr. Mahoney. And suppose I'm not in the answering mood? Then even I shudder to think of the consequences. Yes, boss? Gregory, remove that. I'm not a "that," I'm a "him". Hey, hands off! Anybody who's gonna remove him, it'll be me. Hey! What's the idea? I want to talk to you alone, Mr. Mahoney. I got nothing to say to you. I think you will. You rang, Armand? Yes, Selena. Please be seated and make some notes. Henceforth, you will please address all your answers to the young lady. Henceforth, I ain't making with no answers and furthermore I've already had the pleasure of meeting Miss Webster. You've met Miss Webster? Quaint little character, isn't he, Armand? Yes... quite. I would like to give you charming people more time to renew your questionable acquaintance, but there's certain information I need promptly. First, where is Eleanor Williams? How should I know? Where is Eleanor Williams? Repeating yourself, ain't you, mister? One moment, Hasson. I believe you do not know where Eleanor Williams is. But where did she hide the other letters? Why don't you look in that crystal ball? That's supposed to make with all the answers. I'm losing my patience, Hasson. Where did she hide the letters? Ain't you getting in a rut, mister? Hasson, take Mr. Mahoney into the other room. Perhaps you can persuade him to answer a few questions. Hasson ain't taking me no place. Fellas. Fellas, take that sledgehammer away, or I might murder him. Take it easy. You'll feel better in a little while. Just let me at him, boys, just let me at him. Shh. He isn't here now. Okay, that's fine, fellas. That's fine. Well... what are you doing here? Say, you better behave yourself. You're in rather a mess, you know. Oh, go away, you're poison. Shh. They're right in the next room. I'm supposed to call them the minute you regain consciousness. You wouldn't want me to do that, would you? I don't care what you do. What do you want out of my young life anyway? I still want to know where to find Eleanor Williams. I don't know what for. But I do know one thing, she's not your kid sister. Well, maybe she isn't, but she has in her possession something that I must have. Armand feels the same way about it. So you're double-crossing him, huh? Could be. But just between you and me, have you found Eleanor Williams? Could be. But if you want an assist from me, you're gonna have to give it back double. You understand? I'll help you get away, that's the most I can do. That ain't enough. I want to know the whole riddle. First of all you got to believe I'm on the level. In my condition, I'm liable to believe anything. Good. Do you know what kind of business Armand operates? He'd like us to believe that he has a television set direct up to the spirits, but even I know better than that. That's right. His psychic pretensions are just a means to gain the confidence of people in distress, fuse all the incriminating information he can for extortion. Extortion? What's that? Blackmail. Blackmail, yeah, yeah, of course, blackmail. So you just figured you'd pull up a chair and join the game? I had to. Like anyone else who's committed some indiscretion Armand knows about. Somehow he gets documentary evidence. No matter how innocent, he manages to make it seem so incriminating, degrading. So how come a slick chick like Eleanor gets mixed up in a clambake like this? How come her association with this Carter guy? Carter was one of Armand's stooges, wasn't he? Yes, he was. When Eleanor's husband was reported missing, she went to Dr. Carter, honestly believing that he could give her spiritual advice. What's all this got to do with Armand? Eleanor really believed her husband was dead. After 3 years she became interested in a young man, some letters were exchanged. I get it. She wrote a couple of letters to some guy and Armand got a hold of them. That's right. ( door unlocking ) I thought I heard somebody talking in here. It's just him, he's delirious. Alice, come with me to our dream island with the coconut, birds and the sick monkeys-- He'll be out of it in a minute. The boss said we'll give him a couple of more minutes. If he doesn't come out with some answers, I'll put him out for keeps. All right. Let's get back to the letters. Well, when Eleanor learned her husband was returning, she was desperate to get these letters back from Armand. So? So Dr. Carter tried to help her, and he stole a whole stack of Armand's blackmail material. But the letters Eleanor wanted weren't there, but the letter I want is. Oh, that's where you come into the-- And when Armand found out that Carter stole these letters, he had him blasted, huh? Not exactly. Carter tried to make a trade with Armand. Trade the stolen material for the letters Eleanor wanted. Sounds like a fair trade. It didn't to Armand. Not to change the subject, but why did you hire me to stick my neck out? Just for laughs? No. I told you to follow Carter hoping he'd lead you to Eleanor, and he did. I didn't know he'd lead you into a murder. That clears the atmosphere a little, and this is an atmosphere that certainly needs clearing. That's why if you know where Eleanor is, you've got to get that letter for me. If I help you now, you must help me. Okay, I will. Now how do I get out of here? And by the way, where is Sach? You know my cohort? Oh, this way. ( Sach mumbling ) That's not the-- Hey, it's fine. While I'm getting murdered, you hide in that closet. What have you got to say for yourself? ( mumbling ) That ain't no excuse. Get down off of there. All right, you want me to help you, huh? Fine assistant you turned out to be. I come on a case and I have to spend all my time untying you from wall hangings. ( mumbling ) He makes more sense with his mouth covered up. You better hurry. They're liable to be in here any minute. Which way do we go? This way, out of the window. That's a good idea. Say, where can I get in touch with you? Meet us tonight 11:15, in front of Louie's sweet shop, 3rd and Canal-- That's a date. What will happen to you when Armand finds out we got away? Don't worry about me. After you're gone, I'll scream, say your partner got loose and overpowered me. Or vice versa. Hurry. Thank you. This way. Oh. It's a long way up. It's a long way down. ( Selena screams ) What are you doing? I'm tired. Remind me to wake you up. Well, we ain't got no choice, we're gonna have to jump. Jump? Jump where? To that roof over there. Oh, move it a little closer. A nice time for jokes. What are you waiting for? Go ahead. Oh, you're leader of the gang, you jump first, go on. You lead, lead. All right, if that's the way you feel about it, I will. Okay? Okay. Okay. What are you looking for? Oh, there you are. Oh, yeah, jump, jump. Jump, jump. Oh, whoa, whoa. Jump like this. Oh, why am I worried about this way? Going that way. Here I go, ready or not, one, two, three, four... ( gibbering ) Come on, jump! My hat's in the way. Well, throw the hat over here. Maybe we should run up to Armand's and see what goes. Yeah, we've been waiting here for hours and I'm hungry. Me too. Who put the lights out? Who put the lights out? Hey, that's Sach's hat. My hat, I lost my hat, I'm nude. Well, now you ain't got no excuses. Hurry up! ( indistinct ) If you don't hurry up, they'll be picking lead out of you for a week. Got to jump, I got to jump. Hello, fellas. How are you? Stop playing games. Who's playing games? Oh, my insurance isn't paid. Come on, we'll go this way, you understand? Sach? Sach? Now he wants to play hide and go seek. Sach, where are you? Here I am! Where? Oh! What are you doing down there? Fine time to ask questions. Well, give me your arms! There they are! Hey, stop pulling! I ain't pulling. You're pushing! It's a nice time to be jumping off roofs! It wasn't my idea. Oh, get up, hurry up, here they come. They're in a jam. Well, what youse waiting for? Let's go. ( groans ) There they go. Hurry up, here they come! Yeah. There they are. Come on! Hurry up, jump! Jump? Yes, jump, hurry. The little boys did it. Here's a door. It's locked. More stairs. This building keeps growing. Probably lead to the roof. Come on, faster. Come on, come on. I guess we're stuck. I don't want to die. I got to find my hat. We surrender! It's AK7! Oh, my hat. Get back down there, they're hot on our trail. Step on it. They're gaining. Better lock this door. That ought to hold them for a while. Follow me. Whose idea was it to tip us off with the hat? Mine! Mine! How did you think of it? Brains, brains, my head's with them. Hey, Slip. Where are we? ( indistinct ) We're at the radio station. That way. Radio station? Look down there. Come on, Phil. ( indistinct chatter ) Hey, do you see what I see? Yeah, nightgown. So what? So I'm beginning to get this stippling of an idea. ( applause ) We have with us tonight five very brilliant gentlemen who will try to answer the difficult questions sent in by people from all over the country. Now if they don't answer correctly, we have, oh, just oodles and oodles of goodie-goodie prizes for the questioner. But if the brain trust comes through, they will receive the rewards. Now in just a few moments we'll be on the air. So it's up to you, good people, to do your part. So when I raise my finger thusly, applaud like mad. But when I lower my finger so, be quiet. Now let us rehearse, shall we? Very good, but just a little louder, please. Let yourselves go. Excellent, excellent. Are you ready, Mr. Gremlin? Yes, professor. I'm ready. Yes, professor. Let's go. Oh, gentlemen, there you are. This way. The professor is ready. Oh, he is? Yes, come, get inside. Hurry up. ( indistinct speech ) The show is about to go on. ( indistinct ) We cannot keep them waiting, you know. You must get in there. Here comes your brain trust. Sit-- Sit right down. Ladies and gentlemen, meet the five-- uh, I mean the six brain trusters, the mighty minds. The famous anthropologist Professor Kinkle. ( applause ) Professor Kinkle? That's you, Mr. Westerfield. Oh. Dr. Milstew, the famous psychiatrist. Hear what he called me? Is that good? The great mathematical genius, the noted authority of world events, the atomic marvel of relativity, and Dr... Well, they're all here. ( indistinct chatter ) What is this? It's some kind of a new school. Yeah, maybe they're gonna give us an honorary degree. Yeah, third degree. Hey, Slip, let's get out of here. No, I want to see the show. Quiet down. We're going on the air. On the air? The radio? Oh, boy! Yeah, now I can say hello to my aunt Sachel. I'm named after her. Good evening-- ( indistinct chatter ) Quiet! Quiet. This is professor Quizard and his brain trusts. ( applause ) Thank you, friends. You make me very happy. This very popular quiz show is brought to you by Fickle's famous cough syrup. The cough syrup known the world over. Remember, if you have a tickle, cure it with Fickle. We are proud of Fickle's cough syrup. ( coughs ) Oh, pardon me. Uh, here is a sample of the many letters I've received from people who swear at-- I mean swear by Fickle's cough syrup. "Professor Quizard, my husband coughed for 20 years. His head hurt constantly. His chest was nothing but pains. His throat was raw. But after one bottle of Fickle's cough syrup, he doesn't cough anymore." Why? He's dead. ( laughter ) Pretty good. It's all right. ( clears throat ) First question from Mr. D. Swattle of Colorado. Are you ready, gentlemen? The question, gentlemen. How many hairs are there on the human head? Whose head? Well, the average human head. That leaves you out. So what happens if we answer the question? Well, you know, if you guess right, we give you oodles of prizes. All these oodles of prizes that's different. Think hard, Sach. There might be something in it for us. Oh, I see. Oh-oh, no hair counting. Oh, I got the answer. One. Oh, no, doctor. There are thousands. Yeah? My uncle Herman has an average head and he's only got one hair in it. Nice play. ( laughter ) Congratulations. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Give the man his prizes. But I can't give a prize for an answer like that. That is a very brilliant answer. The doctor receives a portable radio. Portable radio, that's only one prize. Where are these oodles you were talking about? A wristwatch. Oh, come on, come again. And a Ready-Ready electric toaster that toasts underwater. And a year's supply of Fickle's cough syrup. That's much better. Congratulations, Sach. That's what I really call using your uncle's head. Proceed with the next question, Professor Gizzard. Very well. I think I have one that will suffice. Well then, suffice it. In honor of what general was the Washington Monument erected? Still gonna make the going a little rough, huh? Well, if you pardon me just a minute I'll have a little conference with my conferees. Perhaps we can arrive at the correct seclusion. Hey, boys. ( indistinct chatter ) No! You can't do that. Around the other way. ( indistinct chatter ) Have you a knife-- How do I know what's going on? Quiet, gentlemen. Remember, you're now members of the intelligentsia. Furthermore we are on the air. Professor, do you mind telling me one thing, how high is this monument? Well, uh... I don't know. Sure, it's even too tough for you. Say, would you mind repeating that question? For what general was the Washington Monument erected? Hey, professor, what was this monument made out of? Concrete or wood? Does it make any difference? What's the difference? Concrete lasts longer than wood. ( indistinct chatter ) ( whistles ) Oh, boy, that's all right. Hey, prof, could you kind of give us a hint, huh? All right. What happened in '76? What hotel? I'm referring to the year 1776. There was a revolutionary war. Now in that war there was a certain General Washington. Don't change the subject. Hey, you know, my father was in the Civil War. Are you nuts? At the time of the Civil War, your father was an infant. So they put him in the infantry. ( laughter ) Hey, hey, I was in the last war, I saved 500 men. Yeah, how? Shot the cook. Pretty good, huh. That's all right. Gentlemen, for what general was the Washington Monument erected? Never mind, now let's get back to the question. That is the question. Where did I hear that before, this question to be or not to be? That is the question. Hey, I got it! Shakespeare! General Shakespeare! ( cheering ) Nobody here. ( laughter ) ( indistinct chatter ) Will you please answer the question? For what monument was General Washington erected? I mean, who erected a general-- Mind your blood pressure. What was this general's racket? A general can be only one thing. How? How should we know how he fought? ( indistinct ) Washington, of course. How many rounds did it go? Well, where is this monument located? Please, you're being precisi-- Don't bring my family into it. ( laughter ) Hey, Slip! We got company! A little something has come up-- Hey, Armand. ( indistinct ) Armand! Please! Gentlemen, please! Don't forget, don't forget... Don't forget, friends, Fickle's cough syrup for that bad cough. I'll be back on the air next week broadcasting from the sanitarium. ( coughs ) Goodnight. Wonder which way they went. They went that way, partner. Thanks, cowboy. Now we can go that way. Hey, look, fellas, I'm a cop. You're all under arrest. Come along quietly. Oop! Let's go. Papers, Slip keeps talking about papers. What kind of papers? Well, whatever they was, they must be important. Sure they're important. Slip knows what he's doing. I hope so. Oh, boys, please, I told you a thousand times, you can't stay here all night. Mama is waiting for me for dinner. The dinner is getting cold and... ALL: Mama is getting hot. That's none of your business. ( indistinct chatter ) Shh. Wait, stop! If you're gonna stay here, you got to keep quiet. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet! Getting late, past 11:00. Always getting under my feet. Clam up! Here comes Selena. I'm sure glad you came. Me too. Have you got the papers? Not so fast, honey. You got to give me something first. What do you mean? I want an affidavit from you swearing that Armand killed Carter. I'll do it. Just give me the papers. I haven't got them. Eleanor's still got them. Well, did you find her? Where is she? She'll be here in a few minutes. ARMAND: Fine. That is just what I want to know. Oh, Armand, I-- Thank you for leading me here. Huh, one of those two-faced dames, huh? Well, I got news for you. I don't like either one of those faces. He followed me here I swear. Shut up! Get inside. Not so fast, there ol' Armand. Don't you ever go anyplace alone? Open the door. Hey, somebody at the door. It's locked. Sure it's locked. Now what do you say, we all go someplace and talk this thing over peacefully? There's nobody in there. Who's there? Tell them it is you. Suppose I don't feel like it? I feel like it. It's me, Whitey. Why don't he use the secret knock? Gee, what's the use of making up rules if you ain't gonna follow them-- Gee, what's the use of making up rules if you ain't gonna follow them? That's what I say. Hey, what's cooking, Slip? Gentlemen, if you do not mind, we will wait here for a charming young lady. I think it would be more convenient if you sit up on the stools. Suppose we don't feel like sitting on the stools. Then tomorrow morning, you will read your name in the obituary column, that is, if you can read. Yeah... You heard the boss, let's go. Hurry-- You'd like to share a malted with me? Come this way. Hey you, fellas, who's buying? ( screams ) Get over there. Quit your shoving or else... Or else what? Or else don't. Come on. Gee, you'd never think he was a gangster, would you? Yes. Please be seated, darling. Armand, this is so unnece-- Please! Sit down before I'm forced to assist you. Now, gentlemen, we will be quiet and wait for our mutual friend, Eleanor. Shall we? That reminds me. I've got a phone call to make. ( whistles ) Oop! Ah, he was probably busy. You boys are still here yet! Oh, we got a cash customer. How do you do, sir? We have a special today, on hot fudge Sundae. Little boy with a man's head, please go behind the fountain. Well, how about hot fudge Monday? Boss don't like ice cream. Yeah, I don't like the boss. The place is always full of people and nobody spends a penny. And with pistols yet. How about routine nine? Good idea, pass it along. Routine nine. They're whispering, boss. You've made a startling revelation. Please continue. Routine nine. What? Oh, routine nine! Oh. What is this routine nine? Oh, that's just a special that Louie has on the dinner tonight. It's a la carte. If you gentlemen are planning something, I would not advice it. Pay attention or the boss will make you look like Swiss cheese. Oh, Swiss cheese. Whole wheat or rye? ( whimpers ) Hey, mustache. There's a couple of things that I think you ought to know, and the first one-- Get back. It is all right. I want to hear what he has to say. I was only gonna say that you're wasting your time. This whole thing is nothing but a stall, that's all. Eleanor is not coming here tonight. In fact, we don't even know Eleanor. Do we, fellas? ALL: No! See, what did I tell you. I believe you, but I have nothing else to do, so I will wait. Well, you're gonna wait an awful long time. ( knocking on door ) That was not too long. ( knocking on door ) Please be seated. ( knocking on door ) Open the door, Richard. Armand! Good evening. Do not run away. Louie, the lights! Huh? Oh. ( gunshot ) Come on, Slip. Give him the one, two, three, right in the eye. Right on the lip. Well, wait a minute, I've got a surprise for you. Nobody buys spice anyway. Right in the kisser! Okay, Louie, turn the lights on, I got 'em! Huh? Oh. ( indistinct ) Always crossing me up! Please get back to the bar. Come along, come along. Come on. Watch out-- Well, gentlemen, now that we have what we came for, we will run along. Good evening. I do not think it would be advisable for you charming gentlemen to follow us. Come along, boys. This is the place, lieutenant. Just a moment. Okay, boys, round them up and get them out of here. Eleanor. Tom! Slip, are you all right? If I stay on my feet, I should get a draw. That was sure a nice piece of detecting you did, Alice. What detecting did she do? What detecting did she do? I'll tell you what detecting she'd done. If it wasn't for her, Tom and those cops never would have got here. Oh, Tom. Who's Tom? Tom is Eleanor's husband, you dummy, that guy over there. Get them out of here. Uh, just a matter of routine, but we'd like to have you come down to the station house with us. All right, lieutenant. Oh, come on, honey, we'd better go. Goodbye, Alice, and thanks a lot. Okay. Maybe I'll do the same thing for you sometime. Honey, I'm proud of you. Followed my instructions to a T. Fellas, I hope you know you're looking at a new member of our little cooperation, AK13. Hi, AK. Hiya, 13. So I've been telling you guys all the time, this detective business is very easy for a genius of my caliber. It's not only a very easy business, but a very lucrative one. Yeah? How much lucrative we got? Well, we started right off with that $50 from Selena. Fifty dollars, eh? Mm-hmm. And what about the 10 bucks we gave Lennie the Meatball? Ten dollars we gave Lennie the Meatball? And how about that 15 to Armand's receptionist? Fifteen to Armand's receptionist? And $25 for the consultation? Twenty-five is consultation-- How much is that? Give me a pencil and paper. Gee, that ought to be 10... 15... 25... 0? And how much is 50 from 50? Fifty? Not very much, is it? How about the damage to my store, hmm? Yeah, what happened to my penthouse? Wait a minute. And my car? Let me explain-- With a chauffeur. When you started this business-- ( indistinct chatter ) I'll take you to court! ( indistinct ) You can't do that to my man, I'll mow you down! ( indistinct ) Oh, I wouldn't have let them hurt you, honey. But don't you worry about it, we can always go away to our dream island. I changed my mind. I ain't going to no dream island. Oh, yes, you are! Guess, maybe I am.