[ Girl ] Dylan? [ Boy ] Sara! Dylan? Dylan? [ Thunderclaps ] [ Giggling ] [ Laughing ] [ Boy #2 ] Hey, kid! Kid! Kid, you don't know what you're missing. [ No Audible Dialogue ] [ Hissing ] You don't know what you're missing. - [ Boy #1 ] Sara! - Dylan? - Sara! - Dylan, what's happening to me? ♪ Your so-called life is far too ♪ ♪ Complicated ♪ ♪ So welcome to this humble world ♪ ♪ I've created ♪ ♪ You want to find freedom from desperation ♪ ♪ You want the forbidden ♪ ♪ You want ♪ ♪ Temptation ♪♪ [ Panting ] [ Thunder Rumbles ] - Thanks for seeing me. - [ Woman ] Of course. Vampire nightmares can be very traumatic. Oh, about the neck brace. [ Chuckling ] You aren't my first. I always take precaution. [ Laughing, Sighs ] So, Dylan. [ Clears Throat ] Why don't you tell me how this all began? Uh, well, it all started with this foreign exchange student at school. Um-- [ Bell Rings ] She was always hanging around me... and, um, telling me she was really into red-blooded Americans. And calling me yummy. That's a little strange. Yeah. - A little scary. - Anyway, one day she cornered me. And the next morning I woke up with this heinous hickey and an eternal hangover. And my teeth started killing me. Oh! Really. Killing me. Well, Dylan. It looks like your incisor's splitting your jaw. The pain must be intense. Is there anything you can do? Not really. I wanna be normal. Well, we could grind 'em. [ Imitating Drill Buzzing ] God, I love that sound. [ Sinister Laughing ] Ooh. That was three weeks ago. Uh, I-I don't understand it. For some reason, it still feels like... I'm part human, part something. Right. Awkward, to say the least. So, Dylan, tell me about this ad you saw... for anti-bloodsucking pills. Okay. Well, this doctor-- He said he had a remedy. [ Man ] Have you recently been bit by a poisonous viper? Deadly spider? Or even a vampire? Then I've got the remedy. ♪ I've got the remedy ♪ [ Dylan ] And, well, a bottle was only 9.95. And if you acted right away, you got two. But so far, all they've done is given me a rash. Oh. I'm sorry. I-I'm worried that I'm becoming a jugular junkie. So, this might be a tough one. But have you told your girlfriend? - Sara? No. That's not gonna be easy. - [ Buzzing ] Hey, Sara. What's up? I'm good. I just miss my best friend Dylan. [ Chuckling ] Yeah? Well, sorry I've been kind of distant lately. Well, you should come out. Come and meet me at the arcade. Meet me in half an hour? Okay. Come on. [ Laughing ] Okay. Bye. Bye. [ Exhales ] Come on! Whoo! Yeah! [ Laughs ] We won! - Ah! - Whoo-hoo! [ Both Laughing ] Dylan, let's go take pictures. [ Laughing ] I love these things. [ Shutter Clicks ] Ah! Mmm! Ah! I'm sorry. I, uh-- I gotta-- Sorry about that. Is anything wrong? Um-- No! No. I, uh-- I've got, um, a cold sore. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. I wouldn't want you to catch anything. Like eternal damnation. [ Nervous Laugh ] Well, that's a relief. I thought it was me. Oh, no, no. Of course not. Okay. Um-- I-I'm really sorry, Sara. I-I gotta go. Um-- I-I'll call you. I'll call you soon. I-I'm sorry. Okay. ♪ There was a time not long ago ♪ ♪ There was a place we used to go together ♪ ♪ What were we searching for? ♪ ♪ I saw the light I felt your heart ♪ ♪ Please don't leave me in the dark ♪ ♪ Remember ♪ ♪ When we were so much more? ♪ ♪ I don't understand it ♪ ♪ You're treating me like ♪ ♪ Some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ Like some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ You've gotta give me more ♪ ♪ I'm not that girl ♪ ♪ Not the girl next door ♪ ♪ You're not the girl You're not the girl You're not the girl ♪ ♪ Girl next store ♪ ♪ You're not the girl You're not the girl ♪ ♪ You're not the girl ♪ ♪ Suddenly you're not the same ♪ ♪ I can't explain, but something's strange ♪ ♪ I feel like I never felt before ♪ Sing it, Sara. ♪ Seems like you're worlds apart ♪ ♪ Stop playing with her heart ♪ ♪ Come back ♪ ♪ I'm not the girl next, girl next door ♪ ♪ Oh, no, oh-oh ♪ ♪ You're not the girl You're not the girl You're not the girl ♪ ♪ Don't leave me out here all alone ♪ ♪ Stop messin' up ♪ ♪ Or she'll be gone ♪ ♪ I'm telling you ♪ ♪ Tell us ♪ ♪ I'm not the girl next door ♪ ♪ Not that girl ♪ ♪ Try to understand it ♪ ♪ We understand it ♪ ♪ You're treating me like ♪ ♪ Some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ Like some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ You've gotta give me more ♪ ♪ Please, please, please ♪ ♪ I'm not that girl ♪ ♪ Not the girl next door ♪ ♪ You're not the girl You're not the girl You're not the girl ♪ ♪ Girl next door ♪ ♪ You're not the girl You're not the girl ♪ ♪ You're not the girl ♪ ♪ Sweet and pure though I might seem ♪ ♪ You don't know what's inside of me ♪ ♪ You'll find out that I am so much more ♪ ♪ Whoa, girl, get off this roller coaster ride ♪ ♪ Ooh, don't let our sweet love die ♪ ♪ Why you hidin' ♪ ♪ I'm not the girl next door ♪ ♪ Try to understand it ♪ ♪ We understand it ♪ ♪ You're treating me like ♪ ♪ Some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ Like some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ You've gotta give me more ♪ ♪ Please, please, please, please ♪ ♪ I'm not the girl, not the girl next-- ♪ ♪ Forbidden, forbidden, forbidden planet ♪♪ Has your relationship changed at all... since the... event? We're having intimacy issues. Hmm. I can imagine. [ Chuckles ] Yeah. It's tough. It's definitely put a barrier up. I mean, if you did try sharing this with her, do you think she would be supportive? I mean, it's, like, not something that just comes up in conversation. I mean, it's, like, hard to just say, "Hey. How's it going? I've got this problem. I'm turning into a vampire." And I've got these, like, razor blades in my mouth. I'm gonna live forever. Sorry about you. [ Exhales ] [ Line Ringing ] Hi, it's Sara. Hey, Sara. But not quite. Leave a message. [ Beeps ] Hey, Sara. It's Dylan. Um, sorry about yesterday. That was really weird. Um, but some things are changing right now, and it's really hard to say in words... over the phone, um, but, uh-- Man, I'm sorry. Uh, this is getting long. Um, anyway, just call me back, and we'll talk. And, um, yeah. Uh, sorry. Thanks. Bye. Idiot. God. [ Sighs ] ♪ This dark place in my head ♪ ♪ I'm all alone My dreams are dead ♪ ♪ So scared 'cause I don't crave ♪ ♪ To be a bat, live in a cave ♪ ♪ This sudden enemy ♪ ♪ Has got its teeth in me ♪ ♪ Lost boy What can I do? ♪ ♪ 'Cause just one kiss means the death of you ♪ ♪ I can't get you out, get you out of my head ♪ ♪ Love is cursed Now I'm worse than dead ♪ ♪ Slave to the blood that I crave instead ♪ ♪ I can't get you out, get you out, out of my head ♪ ♪ If I to-to-touch your lips, you'll wind up dead ♪ ♪ Lustin' for blood That's a life I dread ♪ ♪ I can't get you out, get you out, out of my head ♪ ♪ I'm stuck in a bloody jam ♪ ♪ Half a monster and half a man ♪ ♪ Don't tell me what to do ♪ ♪ Or I'll suck the life right out of you ♪ ♪ This sudden appetite ♪ ♪ It keeps me up at night ♪ ♪ Fighting to find the will ♪ ♪ A cruel joke ♪ ♪ Be killed or kill ♪ ♪ I can't get you out, get you outta my head ♪ ♪ Love is cursed Now I'm worse than dead ♪ ♪ Slave to the blood that I crave instead ♪ ♪ I can't get you out, get you out, outta my head ♪ ♪ I can't believe this is happening ♪ ♪ I can't believe that it's true ♪ ♪ I can't believe this is happening ♪ ♪ To me, to you ♪ ♪ I can't believe this is happening ♪ ♪ To want a love for all time ♪ ♪ To find the courage to ask of you ♪ ♪ Risk it all Risk it all to be mine ♪ ♪ I can't get you out, get you outta my head ♪ ♪ Love is cursed Now I'm worse than dead ♪ ♪ Worse than dead ♪ ♪ Slave to the blood that I crave instead ♪ ♪ I can't get you out, get you out, outta my head ♪♪ Oh! Ow! Damn it. Ew. It's an acquired craving. Kinda like Indian food. Uh, you're the dude from the nightmare. - That's me. - What? - How the hell did you get in here? - Come on, dude. I fly! I get inside. I have special powers. You know, you really need to get out more. Um, I'm sorry. Who are you? Oh, the name's Trey... Sylvania. [ Chuckles ] Funny. You're kidding, right? Do I look like I'm kidding? No. Not at all. No. Um, so, Trey Sylvania, how-how-- how can I help you? What do you want? See, I came here to help you. I picked up on all your pissing and moaning, and, frankly, I couldn't stand it. So I thought I'd swing by and show you how to take a bite out of life. Oh, God. I'm gonna have to call my parapsychologist about this. Um-- I-I'm sorry. I-I-I'd-- I-I-I-I-I-- Come on, dude. You really gotta get over your "fang-ups." You see, uh, vampires are hot. You're not a ghoul. You're cool. And the girlies, they love us. What you need to do is spread your wings, try all the blood types. - Uh, well, um-- - Excellent. I, uh-- I don't want to try any blood types. I'm just actually interested in being normal... and being with her. Her, as in Sara, the little songbird from next door? - How-- - Man, what are you waiting for? [ Sighs ] Well, turning into a vampire. Don't really want to hurt her, you know? There is that. Yeah, there's that. You know, the only person you're hurting, kid, is yourself. Let me show you what life can be like when you go for the throat. Ah, Luna, my number one. You look so pale, like you've seen a ghost. Or a vampire? ♪ Do you Do you think it's strange? ♪ ♪ D-Do you-- D-Do you-- ♪ ♪ Yeah ♪ ♪ The very first time you look at a vampire ♪ ♪ It's terribly terrifying ♪ ♪ Taboo and so exciting ♪ ♪ What to do? ♪ ♪ The very first time your lips touch a vampire ♪ Touch a vampire. ♪ You wonder about the biting ♪ ♪ The taste of fruit inviting ♪ ♪ Will he hurt you? ♪ ♪ Accept for just one moment ♪ ♪ We live the way we live ♪ ♪ This bloody lack of choices ♪ ♪ We take, and then we give ♪ ♪ Love's in vein Do you think it's strange? ♪ ♪ Just go for the throat Go for the throat ♪ ♪ Feeding time Get outta your mind ♪ ♪ And go for the throat Go for the throat, yeah ♪ ♪ The very first time alone with a vampire ♪ Ooh, yeah. ♪ You'll party from dusk to dawn ♪ I remember. ♪ One prick, and then you're gone, gone, gone ♪ Ooh. Bye-bye. ♪ Accept for just one moment ♪ ♪ We live the way we live ♪ ♪ And this bloody lack of choices ♪ ♪ We take, and then we give ♪ ♪ Love's in vein Do you think it's strange? ♪ ♪ Go for the throat Go for the throat ♪ ♪ D-Do you think it's strange? ♪ ♪ Love's lost time Get out of your mind ♪ ♪ Go for the throat Go for the throat, yeah ♪ ♪ Go for the throat ♪ ♪ Yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah ♪ Go for the throat. ♪ He'll save you from the human race ♪ ♪ Especially if you've got a pretty face ♪ ♪ He will, yeah ♪ ♪ Look at the signs Open your eyes ♪ ♪ You're startin' to live Doin' just fine ♪ ♪ Love is a bust Blood is a must ♪ ♪ No need to worry 'cause you're one of us ♪ ♪ One of us ♪ ♪ Love's in vein Do you think it's strange? ♪ ♪ Love's in vein ♪ ♪ Go for the throat Go for the throat ♪ ♪ Feeding time Get out of your mind ♪ ♪ And go for the throat Go for the throat, yeah ♪ ♪ Do you think it's strange? ♪ ♪ Love's lost time Get out of your mind ♪ ♪ Go for the throat Go for the throat, yeah ♪ ♪ Go for the throat ♪♪ Okay. Uh, thank you all for whatever that was. But now feel free to go back into the walls... and back to wherever you live or don't live. - [ Laughing ] - Not until you see the light. I mean, the dark. Very important. Remember, the light will kill you. Yeah, I'm figuring that out. Don't you get it, kid? You're the bite. Don't you get it? I don't wanna be the bite. It'll make you feel better. Why? Let me just hear you say it one time. "I'm the bite." No. Come on, Luna. Help him out. You're the bite. Oh, I am the bite, but you're the bite too. - No! - Just for the ladies. Come on. [ Hissing ] Okay. I'm the bite. That's the teen vampire spirit. - [ Knocking ] - [ Sara ] Dylan? Oh, it's Sara. [ Knocking Continues ] Is someone in there with you? - Let her in. - Uh, just-just one second. - Dylan? - They're gone. Come on! Hey, Sara. What's up? That's what I was coming to ask you. I was so worried after that weird message. I know. I'm sorry about that. I just-- I just-- You must be Sara. Who are you? My name is Trey. Dylan, what's going on? You know, we were just about to go to a party. - A party? - Uh-- What party? Oh, it's gonna be killer! You should come. What do you say? - Sure. - What-What are you doing to her? Just like that. - Uh, I'm helping her make up her mind. - She doesn't need any help. - Don't listen to him. - It's okay, Dylan. - Let's live a little. - [ Trey ] Yeah. Let's live a little. [ Thunderclap ] Live, right. ♪ La, da-da-dee, da-dee-dee-dee da-dee, da-dum ♪ ♪ La-da-dee-dee ♪ ♪ La, da-da-dee, da-dee-dee-dee da-dee, da-dum ♪ ♪ La-da-dee-dee ♪ All right. Trey Sylvania has arrived. The party can now begin. Come on, guys. What's going on? Good to see you. What's up, dead eyes? How you doin'? How you doin', beautiful? What up, beautiful? How you doin'? What's goin' on, brother? Hey, Luna, baby. Come here. Show these guys a seat, huh? Show my friends a good time. So, who are your new friends? New fiends is more like it. Trey seems pretty cool. Oh, yeah. He's cool. Yeah, he's cool as a cadaver. Mmm. The refreshments are here. Teenagers, my favorite drink. Yum. [ Laughing ] What did they mean by that? That's it. We're outta here. Hey! Where are you guys going? The party's just getting started. Here. Enjoy. Oh, please don't tell me that's what I think it is. It's a Bloody Mary. Very bloody. Mmm. I feel warm all over. Oh, great. Now you're melting her mind. No, that's what you're gonna do, kid. What are you waiting for? I'm waiting for whatever you've done to her to wear off. This is so good. I'm not gonna take advantage of her like this. She's a zombie. I mean, just look at her. She's like a juicy, ripe tomato. I-I don't want her like this. But she wants you. You know, if you don't make a move now, she's gonna feel rejected... again. Really? [ Luna ] Yeah. Trust me. Oh, that's a good idea-- trust a vampire. And if you slip, she'll just let out a bloodcurdling scream. - Okay. Just stop it. - Okay, I'll stop it if you just kiss her already. [ Chuckling ] Come on. [ Sighs ] Okay. Fine. Here. Thank you very much. Come on. Where are we going? Come on. Let's go over here. [ Laughing ] Did you bring me here to kiss me? Trust me, Sara. This is not the place to do that. We've gotta get outta here. Well, what is it? More cold sores? No. If you only knew how much I cared about you. Then show me, Dylan. Oh, I'm-I'm sorry. What is it? Is it me? No, no. It's me. Then stop leading me on. It's killing me. Sara, come on. ♪ I took a chance and made her feel like prey ♪ ♪ I made my move and now she's walking away ♪ ♪ Hey ♪ ♪ If there was only some way that I could explain ♪ ♪ If I tell her the truth, she'll think I'm insane ♪ ♪ Oh ♪ ♪ The sad end to this love story ♪ ♪ Your best friend is bloodthirsty ♪ ♪ Just a little nip Just a little lip nibble ♪ ♪ Just a little kiss Just a little bit of tickle ♪ ♪ Just a little peck Just a little peck Just a little ♪ ♪ La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la ♪ ♪ Just a little nip Just a little lip nibble ♪ ♪ Just a little kiss Just a little bit of tickle ♪ ♪ Just a little peck Just a little peck Just a little ♪ ♪ La-la-la-la-la ♪ ♪ I don't understand why he's avoiding me ♪ ♪ 'Cause it's in the air Sweet chemistry ♪ ♪ Sweet chemistry ♪ ♪ The nape of your neck and the curve of your breast ♪ ♪ It's a taste that he longs to test ♪ ♪ Longs to test ♪ ♪ That he longs to test ♪ ♪ Yeah ♪ ♪ Kissing her, a fantasy ♪ ♪ That's bitten my anxiety ♪ ♪ Just a little nip Just a little lip nibble ♪ ♪ Just a little kiss Just a little bit of tickle ♪ - ♪ Just a little peck Just a little peck ♪ - ♪ A little ♪ ♪ La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la ♪ ♪ Just a little nip Just a little lip nibble ♪ ♪ Just a little kiss Just a little bit of tickle ♪ ♪ Just one little, little ♪ ♪ Just a little peck Just a little peck Just a little ♪ ♪ La-la-la-la-la ♪ ♪ Just let yourself go ♪ ♪ Feel the beating of your heart ♪ ♪ I can't say no ♪ ♪ Because you're falling hard ♪ ♪ Sweet immortality ♪ ♪ Has got the best of me ♪ ♪ 'Cause you're irresistible, irresistible, irresistible ♪ ♪ Just a little nip Just a little lip nibble ♪ ♪ Just a little kiss Just a little bit of tickle ♪ ♪ Just a little peck Just a little peck Just a little ♪ ♪ La-la-la, la-la-la ♪ ♪ Just a little nip Just a little lip nibble ♪ ♪ Just a little kiss Just a little bit of tickle ♪ ♪ Just a little peck Just a little peck Just a little ♪ ♪ La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la ♪ ♪ Just let yourself go ♪ ♪ Let yourself go ♪ ♪ Kissing her, a fantasy that's bitten my anxiety ♪ ♪ Just let yourself go ♪ ♪ Let yourself go ♪ ♪ Just a little peck Just a little peck Just a little ♪ ♪ Your best friend is bloodthirsty ♪ ♪ Just a little nip ♪ ♪ Just a little nibble ♪ ♪ A little kiss ♪ ♪ Just a little nibble ♪ ♪ A little ♪ ♪ La-la-la-la-la ♪ ♪ Bloodthirsty ♪ ♪ Just a little peck ♪ ♪ It's just your neck ♪ ♪ Just trust me ♪ ♪ La-la-la-la-la ♪♪ [ Bites ] Hey! [ All Gasping ] [ Laughs ] Dude! You chipped my fang. Dude, that was low. Well, I am from the underworld. [ Laughs ] Oh, so she's the pretty one now, huh? [ Hissing ] Vampires-- Can't live with them, can't kill 'em. Baby, you know you're still number one. Hey. Oh. And you. Hey! And you. Dylan, what happened? Uh, nothing. It was just a nick. A nick? What do you mean "nick"? I mean, I got here in the nick of time. For what? Nothing, hopefully. Listen. Remember, kid, you are still the bite. See you later. You're the bite! Are you okay? I think so. But what did he mean by "You're the bite"? And who were all those other girls? And-- Promise you'll never leave me. Look, I'm gonna be around... for a long, long, long, really long, long time. - [ Heart Beating ] - [ Thunder Rumbles ] So... Sara was nicked? And you still haven't told her about your condition? Yeah, I guess I'm still in denial. You think? [ Sighs ] So have you noticed any symptoms? Nothing obvious, but, um, she does have a dangerous look in her eye... and, um, I can almost feel her thirst. It's kinda scaring the hell out of me. I-- I just don't even know what to say about that. What? I thought you were vegan. People change. Well, people change clothes, that's for sure. You don't like it? It's great, if you're going for the goth look. Come on, Dylan. You're like a boy trapped in a bubble. Okay? Well, I'm gonna pop the bubble then. Here we go. Popping bubbles. [ Snaps Fingers ] Well, good, 'cause I'm tired of playing it safe. You know, like, don't you ever wanna do something crazy? Like get a weird tattoo or dye your hair green or-- Grow fangs. Hey, who was the one... who fought really hard to change the yearbook theme to "A New Frontier"? The yearbook? Come on, Dylan. We're like two goldfish trapped in a fishbowl. I'm tired of waiting for life... to slowly ooze out one drop at a time. What are you doing, Sara? ♪ Got a weird sensation and an evil temptation ♪ ♪ Thoughts about the victims ♪ ♪ I'd pick ♪ ♪ I start to grin and gloat and fantasize ♪ ♪ About ripping throats and ending lives ♪ ♪ The places I've been ♪ ♪ Could not prepare ♪ ♪ Could not prepare ♪ ♪ Me for this ♪ ♪♪ [ Vocalizing ] ♪ Whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh ♪ ♪ My baby's misbehaving ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh ♪ ♪ I fear she's got the craving ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh ♪ ♪ It's a bloody sensation ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop, just a drop ♪ ♪ To satisfy my need ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop, just a drop ♪ ♪ To get some relief ♪ ♪ Get some relief ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop, just a drop ♪ - ♪ To make a better day ♪ - ♪ Just a drop ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh-oh Just a drop ♪ Now, Sara, would you mind not really just-- ♪ Checkin' out the menu, but there's nothing there ♪ [ Groans ] ♪ Give me Tom, Dick or Betty It's a tasty affair ♪ Well, I am a little thirsty. ♪ Snare us a treat that chucks a razor back ♪ ♪ It sounds impulsive, but I need a bloody snack ♪ ♪ Bloody snack ♪ ♪ Just let yourself go ♪ ♪ Let yourself go ♪ ♪ And life will begin ♪ ♪ Life will begin ♪ ♪ When my fangs sink in ♪ - ♪♪ [ Vocalizing ] - ♪ No, oh-oh ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh ♪ ♪ My baby's misbehaving ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh ♪ ♪ I fear she's got the craving ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh ♪ ♪ Whoa, it's a bloody sensation ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop, just a drop ♪ ♪ To satisfy my need ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop, just a drop ♪ ♪ To get some relief ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop, just a drop ♪ ♪ To make a better day ♪ ♪ Just a drop ♪ ♪ Just a drop, just a drop ♪ ♪ Somebody's gonna bleed ♪ ♪ Just a drop ♪♪ Just a drop of life. Dylan, what's happening to me? It's okay. We just broke out into a little number. Do you remember that dream that you had about partying with vampires? Yeah. [ Nervous Chuckle ] Funny thing-- That wasn't a dream. Okay. Is this where the weird gets weirder? Does the name Trey Sylvania mean anything to you? Dylan, you're seriously freaking me out right now. Why are you looking at me like I have some kind of disease? Because I caught it too. [ Gasps ] Oh, my God. It's why I didn't want to kiss you. And I thought it was because I'd stopped wearing my retainer. What? You stopped wearing your retainer? I've got fangs! Fangs! Bangs! Your bangs look great, honey. Perfect length. This is okay. It's a total normal reaction. I completely understand. Breathe. Volcanoes are erupting. Lightning is striking. Meteors are bombarding. But I am not gonna lose my ever-loving mind because of it. I'm just gonna look at it as... another challenge. [ Breathing Fast ] Oh, my God. Sara? Sara, I think you're about to hyperventilate. Everything's gonna be fine. What's next? Pasty anemic skin and glassy eyes? No, that's crazy. That's just in the movies. Well, we've got to find a cure. A cure. Sure! Absolutely. - I mean, that's all there is to it, right? - Right. Um, but in the meantime, this Trey dude-- he is, uh-- he's psychic, and so you shouldn't really think about him... because he likes to just pop in. Okay. Weird overload. I'm sorry. That was a little too weird. I just really need to get my mind off this. How 'bout dessert? Great. I could really go for a T-bone right now. [ Quietly ] Get the check? [ Rings ] Dr. Light. Hey, Dr. Light. So I wanted to let you know that I did finally tell Sara. Excellent, Dylan. Honesty is the first step toward recovery. No, it's much worse than that. It was much more than a nick. Sara's actually turning now. And I'm a little freaked out. Dylan, listen to me. You should go to her. You and Sara will need each other now more than ever. [ Thunderclap ] [ Dylan ] Sara, we need to talk about Trey. [ Sarah ] Yeah. I think I heard him while I was sleeping. He was in your bedroom? Worse. He was in my mind. I kept hearing him say, "Go for the throat." It's like I was lost in the desert and dying of thirst, and he offered me a cool drink. It's funny, but I felt strangely alive. Oh, no. This is not good. This is not good at all. This is-- This is bad. This just complicates everything. Why does this have to happen to us? Oh, my God! You sound just like my dad when he mutters, "Why me?" Come on. Give me a break here. I-- I just don't want to lose the Sara that I know. Well, we can't just sit here. We have to try something. ♪ I'm gonna hold my head up high ♪ ♪ Livin' in this darkness is so wrong ♪ ♪ I'm gonna give our life a try ♪ ♪ Even though we've come to this ♪ ♪ And move on ♪ ♪ Say good-bye to all of your tears ♪ ♪ I know that you're feelin' down ♪ ♪ Forget your childlike fears ♪ ♪ We've gotta help each other now ♪ ♪ Sometimes you gotta face the facts ♪ ♪ Just don't throw your life away ♪ ♪ To be cool ♪ ♪ Some clouds are gray These clouds are black ♪ ♪ I can feel them closing in ♪ ♪ I'm no fool ♪ ♪ Don't say I'm letting you down ♪ ♪ By holding on to what we knew ♪ ♪ I miss your innocence now ♪ ♪ You're reaching out for something new ♪ ♪ I can see you're breaking down ♪ ♪ But I need a hero now ♪ ♪ I can see you're losin' ground ♪ ♪ You're losing ground ♪ ♪ Boy, I need a hero now ♪ ♪ All you've gotta do is try ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh, whoa-oh ♪ ♪ I'm not gonna give my dreams away ♪ ♪ So just try ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh, whoa-oh ♪ ♪ It'll happen anyway ♪ ♪ Give it a try Give it a try ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ - ♪ Lately I don't feel like myself ♪ - ♪♪ [ Dylan, Indistinct ] ♪ Something's taken over ♪ ♪ That's the best day ♪ ♪ What rot ♪ ♪ And won't stop ♪ ♪ And these voices she heeds ♪ ♪ Trapped in the life of someone else ♪ -♪ Could it be I'm breaking free ♪ -♪ Only raise my deepest fears ♪ ♪ And you're not? ♪ ♪ There's a voice inside of my head ♪ ♪ Only you and I know ♪ ♪ Growin' stronger every day ♪ ♪ All the things that you know ♪ ♪ Sings sweetly over again ♪ ♪ And I know ♪ ♪ There's no need to be afraid ♪ ♪ So be afraid ♪ ♪ All you gotta do is try ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh, whoa-oh ♪ ♪ I'm not gonna give my dreams away ♪ ♪ So just try ♪ ♪ Whoa-oh, whoa-oh ♪ ♪ It'll happen anyway ♪ ♪ Give it a try Give it a try ♪ ♪ Ooh-ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ ♪ Try ♪♪ Your hands are freezing. I've been thinking. There are all kinds of medical breakthroughs these days. There's gotta be somebody out there who can help us. Well, um, I'm sure your hands are gonna be fine. [ Chuckles ] I actually did do some research... and I found this guy, Dr. Helsing. He's a venomologist. He says that he's got an antidote for anything, even vampires. ♪ I've got the remedy ♪ Come see Dr. Dan, the Venom Man. ♪ I've got everything that you need ♪ Poison is my passion. ♪ He's got the remedy ♪ ♪ He's got everything that we need ♪ 999-789-8798. ♪ 'Cause poison is my passion ♪ ♪ 'Cause poison is his passion ♪ Poison is my passion. [ Sara ] Well, where does he live though? Transylvania? [ Dylan ] No, actually Reseda. We could be there in an hour. [ Dog Barking ] Yeah. [ Knocking ] [ Mutters ] Uh, excuse me. Dr. Dan Helsing? Uh, yeah. Ju-- Oh! Oh! You must be the salespeople from the deadly centipede farm. I got your stuff here. No. I'm Sara, and this is Dylan. And we're actually not salesmen. Um, we're turning into vampires. [ Hissing ] Wowee! Look at those... fangs! Those things are fresh. [ Gasps ] When did this happen? Uh, couple weeks ago for her, it's been a lot longer for me. Ah! Oh, by the way, if you see a scorpion wandering around here, would you mind just, uh-- I lost it. So I presume you're experiencing sleeplessness, sensitivity to light, sonar-like hearing. Sanguivorous eating habits. Uh-- [ Gasps ] You wanna suck someone's jugular. Yes, it's horrible. Can you help us? When it comes to neurotoxic venoms, there's not a poison on the planet I can't handle. Well, then there's hope? There's a cure? Oh, well, they don't call me Dr. Dan, the Venom Man, for nothing. [ Chortling ] Listen here, my little night creatures, I have been bitten by vipers in Africa, tarantulas in Texas, piranhas in the Amazon, and I have survived them all. Check it till you wreck it. Oh! Ooh, yeah! That's a vampire bat in Trinidad. - Obviously fresh. - Yeah. Yeah. That's serious stuff right there. What did you do with the venom? I sucked it out. It tasted a little like, uh, cactus juice. But have you ever been bitten by a real vampire? Uh, well, no. But I have collected a great deal of victims' venom... perfecting serums. But have you ever actually stopped someone from becoming a vampire? Technically, no. Yeah. But I have discovered the secret. The secret? [ Giggling ] Uh-huh. You see, the secret to the cure... is in the vampire's D.N.A. [ Giggles ] And the stronger that D.N.A., the faster you go bye-bye. Now, you may have a very weak strain in you, which means you may never turn. But you-- you-- The one who nibbled on your neck, he must have some strong mojo. What does that mean? It means that if we don't act fast, you'll be his forever. [ Trey, Faint ] ♪ I can feel you ♪ Shh! I can hear him. It's like he's calling me. What is going on? She, uh-- She can't control herself. He's in her head. Sara. Sara. Doc, she's not resisting. You're catching on. He can feel her. Feel her? [ With Trey ] ♪ I can feel you ♪ ♪ I can feel you ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ ♪ There's something in the thing you do ♪ ♪ That you do ♪ ♪ I'm feelin' you ♪ ♪ Baby, I am feelin' you ♪ ♪ Feelin' you ♪ ♪ I'm in your brain, and I'm in your veins ♪ ♪ You can't say no, and you can't let go ♪ ♪ You've got this power Stronger every hour ♪ ♪ I can't say no, and I can't let go ♪ ♪ It's for the best if you can resist ♪ ♪ Just one kiss is such a risk ♪ ♪ Y-Yeah ♪ ♪ Tonight's the night You'll feed me within ♪ ♪ I'm in your blood You're under my skin ♪ ♪ There's something in the thing you do, that you do ♪ ♪ That you do That you do ♪ ♪ Baby, I am feelin' you Feelin' you ♪ ♪ You'll concede ♪ ♪ And I will set you free ♪ ♪ Rest assured ♪ ♪ Lust for all eternity ♪ [ Dylan ] ♪ Is that what you want? ♪ ♪ Leave reality behind till the end of time ♪ ♪ Look at her fallin' ♪ ♪ Leave reality behind ♪ ♪ Look at her fallin', fallin' ♪ ♪ Fallin' ♪ ♪ I can feel you ♪ ♪ Get out ♪ ♪ There's something in the thing you do ♪ ♪ That you do ♪ ♪ Get out ♪ ♪ Baby, I am feelin' you, feelin' you ♪ ♪ I like your style and your wicked smile ♪ ♪ It's one small sin if you just give in ♪ ♪ Just give in ♪ ♪ You say I'm strong ♪ ♪ But you could be wrong ♪ ♪ It's one small sin, so I'll just give in ♪ ♪ You're on the fence, but it makes no sense ♪ ♪ No sense ♪ ♪ Just one taste, your life's a waste ♪ ♪ Yeah ♪ ♪ Tonight's the night You'll feed me within ♪ ♪ There's something in the thing you do, that you do ♪ ♪ Baby, I am feelin' you, feelin' you ♪ ♪ Feelin' you ♪♪ Well, come on. Let's give her the serum. Let's do it. Whoa, whoa, whoa, cowboy. This isn't just like popping an aspirin. I told you. We're going to need vampire D.N.A. in order to perfect the serum. So what? We're gonna have to kill the guy? We can't do that. Can we? Why does everyone go there? It's so medieval. We're talking science, people. All I need is a blood sample. Oh, all you need is a blood sample. Let's just have a blood drive. See if he shows up. Why don't you just prick his finger? I just need a drop. - Just a drop? - Just a drop. Well, how are we gonna find him? Didn't I just sit through a whole song about this or what? You're connected... telepathically. He does have a point. I mean, we just think of him, and then he shows up. Right. I figured that out. There you go! Just think of him. Huh? One second. We need to-- Yeah. So, what do you think? Well, I think that this guy is a freakin' nut job... and that there's no guarantee that this serum's actually gonna work. Well, I mean, he is kind of a train wreck, but he's our only train. We have to go for it. You're saying that we have to "choo-choo-choose" him? Mm-hmm. We should. Come on. Get on! [ Groans ] Well, Doc, I think... we're out for blood. ♪ Na, na-na, na-na-na na-na ♪ ♪ If you want it ♪ ♪ You better go get it ♪ ♪ Don't know if I can find the will ♪ ♪ Or if we possess the skill ♪ ♪ To fight this evil underworld ♪ ♪ Only know we can't stand still Yeah ♪ ♪ So do we declare war? Make a start ♪ ♪ To put things back the way they were Foolish heart ♪ ♪ We're out for blood ♪ ♪ If you want it ♪ ♪ You better go get it ♪ ♪ Or all will be lost ♪ ♪ If you want it, go get it ♪ ♪ We're gonna rock this world tonight ♪ ♪ We're out for blood ♪ Now, go. Now, go. I'm tired of air-guitaring and hip-gyrating. You gotta go before she turns. [ Gasps ] Go! Let's go. [ Squishes ] [ Grunts ] I think I found your scorpion. Go, go, go! Sorry. [ Chorus ] ♪ Out for blood ♪♪ So how do we do this? I don't know. Usually I try not to think of him, and then he appears. So-- Okay, well, the "bat signal" obviously isn't working. Maybe you should just try saying his name? Oh, that's a good idea. Trey Sylvania. Trey Sylvania! Trey Sylvania. Trey Sylvania. Okay. I heard you the first time. [ Chuckles ] I should have let you keep going. You have been on my mind. Have I been on yours? Kind of. Hey, uncalled for. Actually, I was called for. You are uncalled for. But you know what? Let's go party, huh? You guys ready to rock? What? [ Snaps ] [ Thunder Rumbles ] ♪♪ [ Chords ] [ Thunder Rumbles ] I'm home! [ Scattered Cheers ] ♪♪ [ Rock ] Okay, try to smile and don't look human. Right. Welcome to Casa Trey. Come on. So, uh, nice place. Where's the, uh, torture chamber? Straight down the hall around the corner to your left. You remember the ladies, right? Kind of. [ Hissing ] [ Trey ] Luna. Lady, I'd kill for you. [ Hisses ] And I have. [ Hisses ] This little cupcake is Desiree Damned. [ Snaps ] Whoo. Man, she's so bad. But she thinks she's Jamaican. I don't know what's up with that. [ With Accent ] Jamaican me thirsty. Anyway, around here we got an, eh, open coffin policy. So, make yourselves at home. Everybody, ladies and ghouls, listen up. We have some new recruits. Say hello to Sara. Say hello to Dylan. They've just been turned. And I know you all remember how awkward it was when we were turning. - [ Hissing ] - Okay? So let's show them a good time, all right? [ Chuckles ] And then I said, "A.B. Negative? More like A.B. dead." [ Growls ] [ Engine Revs ] Hey, konnichi-- What's up? - [ Desiree ] Oh, hey, man. - Baby. Everyone, a toast. To the newly vampired. [ All ] Hear! Hear! Live long and kill. Mmm. I thought you might like this trinket. Yeah? [ Dylan ] Oh, wow. Look at that. You gave her a really inappropriate gift. Awesome. Oh, it's beautiful. I thought so too... when he gave it to me! Oh, oh, my gosh. How embarrassing. Don't worry about it. She's got a million bobbles. They all do. Remember, demons are a girl's best friend. That's right. Keep it. I hope it chokes you to death. - [ Girl ] Ooh! - [ Trey ] Luna! Oh, Luna, baby. You know I'm heinous and depraved. That's what you love about me! You should go after her. Yeah, totally. [ Sighs ] What's she gonna do? Kill herself? [ Chuckling ] Yeah. Would it be impolite if I stabbed him with a chopstick... and you wiped his blood with a napkin? [ Thunderclap ] Well, that went well. What do we do now? I don't know. But he's up to something. But what if-- literally playing devil's advocate-- he's actually trying to help us? Are you kidding? Sara, just because he gave you a little trinket... doesn't mean he actually likes you. He's a freakin' vampire. But this plan-- that we don't have-- might not work. We might have to stay here a while. Oh, yeah, you're right. We should probably just move in. I bet they have great cable. Come on. We don't have much time here. We're in hell right now. We got to find Trey, get his blood-- Shh. I hear something. [ Whispering, Indistinct ] [ Trey ] Baby! Come on, Luna. It was just a gesture. [ Grunts ] You know I don't care about what's-her-neck. You're supposed to be the Prince Of Darkness, not Santa Claus. [ Scoffs ] She's so sweet and-and innocent. And-- Perfect? Yeah. I know, like a picture postcard. And you know how that makes their downfall so much sweeter. I am warning you, Trey. Do not mess with me. If you thought you were in hell, you haven't felt the heat. Ooh, is that a promise? Ooh, you are the most evil being on the planet! I wish I'd never met you. But there I was. Right after the neighbors burned down your house. Batman to the rescue. You've rescued all of us. My hellish hero. Well. [ Scoffs ] Still, I'm being silly about the new one. Maybe I should take her under my wing. That's my number one. Come on. Let's get outta here. Vampires cannot be trusted. I feel like I'm being hunted right now. Okay, being paranoid isn't gonna help. We have to find out how to get to him. [ Clanks ] Without getting caught. Well, if we knew his weakness maybe? Well, that's easy. Girls. Have you not seen the place? Well, who does that help? No. No, that is a bad idea. We are not using you as bait. Come on, Dylan. I can do this. It's the only way to get close to him. What are you talking-- You were put in a trance the first 10 seconds he met you. Okay, if you have a better idea, then let me know. You don't even have a plan. What are you going to say? Oh, so I'm the dumb schoolgirl, and you've got it all figured out, huh? Oh, come on. Look at yourself. You're definitely not a schoolgirl. You don't even look like yourself anymore! There you go again. "I'm not myself. I'm not myself." Maybe you should take another look! I will take another look. [ Trey ] Don't you just love a lovers' quarrel? Really gets the blood pumping. Sara, I want to apologize for my behavior. Maybe we could spend some time together. It'll be fun. Fun? There it is. It's all settled. And while these girls do what it is they do, boys will be boys, huh? What are we waiting for? Okay, Miss Strawberry Shortcake. Let's get a couple things straight. I'll start by taking this back. Second, remember. You're at the back of the line, okay? I'm Trey's number one. You're number 11. Maybe eight, on a good day. Yeah, so no cutting. Or we'll eat you alive. What-- What are you guys doing? [ Trey's Voice ] Luna, why don't you give this little bird... one of your "makeunders"? [ Chuckles ] Let's take her from demure to delicious. Shall we? ♪ Miss Apple Pie Is she so nice? ♪ ♪ Too sweet to be into vice ♪ ♪ Super fine and so demure ♪ ♪ Her look I have the perfect cure ♪ ♪ A sweet pea ♪ ♪ On a killing spree ♪ - ♪ Sweet lips disguise a kiss ♪ - [ Kisses ] ♪ Blends in, but she won't mix ♪ ♪ Deadly be... comes glamorous ♪ - ♪ Are you ready to join us ♪ - Come with us. ♪ Join us ♪ ♪ Miss Superstar? ♪ ♪ Are you ready to find out ♪ ♪ Ready to find out ♪ ♪ Who you really are? ♪ [ Girl ] What are you made of, Sara? ♪ Don't you feel dangerous ♪ ♪ Now that you're one of us? ♪ ♪ This dark paradise so nice ♪ ♪ You're a shiny new vampire ♪ ♪ It's intoxicating ♪ - ♪ And there's no escaping ♪ - [ Girl ] No escaping! ♪ This dark paradise so nice ♪ ♪ You're a shiny new vampire ♪ ♪ This dark paradise so nice ♪ ♪ You're a shiny new vampire ♪ ♪ Pretty thing ♪ [ Luna ] ♪ With a nasty sting ♪ ♪ Wedding bells in a fiery hell ♪ ♪ Angelic face you can't erase ♪ ♪ Your dreams down a wishing well ♪ ♪ Oh, so cool a real dear ♪ ♪ Looks good ♪ ♪ Looks good ♪ ♪ Not a thing to fear ♪ ♪ Come taste her kiss ♪ ♪ Your last wish ♪ ♪ As she rips you from ear to ear ♪ ♪ Are you ready to join us ♪ ♪ Miss Superstar? ♪ ♪ Are you ready to find out ♪ ♪ Who you really are? ♪ I'm onto you, Sara. ♪ Don't you feel dangerous ♪ ♪ Now that you're one of us? ♪ ♪ One of us, one of us ♪ ♪ This dark paradise so nice ♪ ♪ You're a shiny new vampire ♪ ♪ It's intoxicating ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ ♪ And there's no escaping ♪ ♪ There's no escaping ♪ ♪ This dark paradise so nice ♪ ♪ You're a shiny new vampire ♪ ♪ Vampire ♪ ♪♪ [ Trey Vocalizing ] - [ Luna ] ♪ You're gonna go far ♪ - ♪ You're gonna go far ♪ ♪ You're our new superstar ♪ You're our new superstar! ♪ Don't you feel dangerous ♪ - ♪ Now that you're one of us? ♪ - ♪ Miss Superstar ♪ ♪ This dark paradise so nice ♪ ♪ You're a shiny new vampire ♪ ♪ Dark paradise, so nice You're a shiny new-- ♪ ♪ Dark paradise, so nice You're a shiny new-- ♪ ♪ Vampire Fresh out of the box ♪♪ Well, what do you think? Looks like she's going to a funeral. I know. Such a disturbingly morbid change of pace. Huh. Perfect for a graveyard. I love it. She loves it? Damn me to hell. Again. So the deal is, kid, you can lead a vampire to a neck, but you can't force it to drink. Morality takes the fun out of everything. Right. Speaking of which, you remember Desiree? The crazy Rastafari chick with the creepy tattoo? Hell, yes. Oh, boy. She's got a thing for you. What? Damn. [ Laughs ] What the hell-- ♪ Come here, little lamb You want a snack? ♪ Anyone ever tell you you got a nice neck? Uh, anybody tell you you don't look Jamaican? No. ♪ And let's dance in the dark ♪♪ All right, this is kind of weird. You know you want it, boy. Relax. Let the stress and worries of life go. Oh, yeah, I'm really relaxed. So, uh, who'd you get to do your interior decorating? Satan? Don't you know, boy? The dark side can be beautiful. I am the queen of the dark. It's where I'm most alive. The black alleys, "dem" tunnels, dead walls and buildings. Painting while the world sleeps. And when they rise, they may see what I done and be hatin' it, but they can't look away. Just like you can't take your eyes off me. [ Whispers ] Dance in the dark. [ Sucking ] [ Sara ] Dylan? Sara! Let me go! [ Grunts ] All you had to do was ask. Dylan? Dylan! Sara. Oh, I was so worried. I don't want to fight. Neither do I. Wait. Is that lipstick? Um, no. And you were worried about leaving me with Trey. Um-- What a joke. A joke? Who's trying to be all "Miss Teen Vampire"? Yeah, well, I like it, okay? Yeah, well, don't you see that Trey is just trying to pull us apart? Well, guess what. It's working. Oh, Sara, come on! We've got to stick to the plan. Let her go, boy. Stay here with me in Jamaica. Whoa! ♪ Try to understand it ♪ ♪ You're treating me like ♪ ♪ Some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ You gotta give me more ♪ ♪ I'm not the girl next door ♪ ♪ Oh ♪ ♪ I understand ♪ ♪ Not that girl ♪ Sing it, Sara. ♪ Don't leave me out here all alone ♪ ♪ Keep messin' up, and I'll be gone ♪ ♪ I'm tellin' you ♪ Tell me. ♪ I'm not that girl next door ♪ ♪ Try to understand it ♪ ♪ I understand it ♪ ♪ Treating me like ♪ ♪ Some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ Like some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ You gotta give me more ♪ ♪ I gotta give you more ♪ ♪ Give you more ♪ ♪ I'm not the girl next door ♪ ♪ The girl next door ♪ ♪ I'm not the girl next door ♪ ♪ You're not the girl You're not the girl next door ♪ ♪♪ [ Vocalizing ] ♪ I'm not the girl next door ♪ ♪ You're not the girl ♪ ♪ I am not some forbidden planet ♪ ♪ He doesn't see what he has ♪ ♪ Forbidden planet ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ ♪ But I do, Sara ♪ ♪ I do ♪ ♪ Forbidden planet ♪ ♪ Forbidden, forbidden, forbidden planet ♪ ♪ No, you're not the girl next door ♪♪ Look at you, all shiny and sinister. I'm glad somebody understands. I do. Sara! I'm sorry, Dylan. You're too late. What do you mean too late? Sara! Where'd you go? Trey! Oh, great. Of course, yeah. Just vanish on me. Perfect. Awesome. Fantastic. [ Phone Rings ] - [ Rings ] - [ Rapidly ] Pick up, pick up, pick up. Dr. Light. [ Dylan ] Oh, thank God, Dr. Light. - Dylan. - Yes. So Sara and I had this crazy plan. It's all gone totally wrong, and now everything is horrible. - Dylan, just-just calm down. - I can't calm down! Trey came in and vanished with her, and now he's gonna make her his groupie forever! And I'm stuck here in this stupid castle, and I'm totally lost, and I'm nauseous, and I've got a fang-ache. I'm not surprised. You're under tremendous stress. Yes, correct. Stress. Listen, Dylan, it sounds like you've made a very important breakthrough-- Learning to persevere despite hopelessly insane odds. So what do I do? 'Cause I-I can't find her. Well, that's up to you. All anyone can ever do is try. Well, thanks, Dr. Light, but I already know that song. [ Sighs ] - Boo! - [ Gasps ] [ Laughs ] Shh. Dr. Dan, how did you find me? I have my ways. Plus, you didn't think I'd miss getting close to a real vampire? Did you? So, where's Sara? Good question. Um, I screwed up. And uh, well, long story short, she's with Trey. Oh. That's not good. No. Oh. The way I figure it, she's only got, like, an hour left. Which is why I brought pre-mixed serum. Just add a little-- dink-- D.N.A. So, what exactly happened? [ Sighs ] I don't know. Trey came in and did his stupid vampire vanish thing. And she left. She went with the cooler guy. [ Sighs ] What if we're too late? Whoa, whoa. It's never too late. I mean, look at me, huh? [ Groans ] I have brought myself back from the brink of death-- Well, there was that one-- [ Murmuring ] Like, hundreds of times. That's what life is all about. You just gotta get used to the bites. That kinda makes sense. Listen, Dylan, you've just gotta feel her. Okay? Like-Like Trey. I don't know how to do that. Come on. You can do it. You've just gotta dig down deep. ♪ Deep down, deep down ♪ Gotta dig down deep. Gotta dig down deep. ♪ Somethin' inside that I've found ♪ ♪ Showed me the way ♪ ♪ Got it all figured out now ♪ ♪ It's time to take command ♪ ♪ Yeah, I understand ♪ ♪ That it's time for the showdown underground ♪ ♪ There's a voice that's calling ♪ ♪ Telling me not to resist anymore ♪ ♪ You got no choice You're fallin' ♪ ♪ It takes an iron will to fight it off ♪ ♪ Fight it off ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ Come on ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ Do or die You gotta dig down deep ♪ ♪ And feed the love No time for the weak ♪ ♪ Y-Yeah, y-yeah, y-yeah ♪ ♪ Eye for eye I'm gonna dig down deep ♪ ♪ 'Cause I've had enough of all of these freaks ♪ ♪ Y-Yeah, y-yeah ♪ ♪ Losin' my mind, losin' my soul ♪ ♪ Losin' your soul ♪ ♪ There's only one code One road that I know ♪ ♪ You gotta dig down deep ♪ ♪ Way down ♪ ♪ Bell rings the end of the round ♪ ♪ Ding ♪ ♪ You're losin' ground like a fighter who goes down ♪ ♪ Like a fighter who goes down ♪ ♪ This pull that I can't stop ♪ ♪ Like a ticking clock ♪ ♪ All your willpower has drowned ♪ ♪ No rebound ♪ ♪ Bitten by your sweet love ♪ ♪ Your sweet love ♪ ♪ I'm feeling like I never felt before ♪ ♪ I'm everything you dreamed of ♪ ♪ And now you've got the chance to have it all ♪ ♪ Havin' it all, yeah ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ Down, down, down, down ♪ ♪ Do or die You gotta dig down deep ♪ ♪ And feed the love no time for the weak ♪ ♪ Y-Yeah, y-yeah, y-yeah ♪ ♪ Eye for eye I'm gonna dig down deep ♪ ♪ 'Cause I've had enough of all of these freaks ♪ ♪ Y-Yeah, y-yeah, y-yeah ♪ ♪ Losin' my mind ♪ ♪ Losin' my mind ♪ ♪ Losin' my soul ♪ ♪ I'm losin' my soul ♪ ♪ There's only one code One road that I know ♪ ♪ You gotta dig down deep ♪ ♪♪ [ Scatting ] ♪♪ [ Scatting ] ♪ Do or die You gotta dig down deep ♪ ♪ And feed the love No time for the weak ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ ♪ No time, no time, no time ♪ ♪ Eye for eye I'm gonna dig down deep ♪ ♪ 'Cause I've had enough of all of these freaks ♪ ♪ Down, de-down, de-down down, down ♪ [ Echoing ] ♪ Down, down ♪ ♪ Can't you feel my heart pound? ♪ ♪ My heart pound ♪♪ [ Sighs ] Oh. Yeah, that's, uh-- That's the gist of it. Wait a second. Do you hear that? [ Sara ] ♪ Heart pound ♪ Hear what? It's Sara. ♪ My heart pound ♪ I can feel her. Ah, you got the powers! I think you're right. Hold on, Sara. Here I come! [ Yelling, Grunts ] [ Grunts ] I'm okay. It's a learning curve. [ Sighs ] Ouch. [ Thuds ] It's only a matter of time now. Don't fight it. That's weird. "Trey. One day we'll spend our days in the sun. Love, Mom." That never happened. But the girl in the picture. She looks just like me. Only you're the real thing. So that's what this is about? You just wanted to add me to your collection? What can I say, baby? Eternity is a long time to fill. This is crazy. This is crazy. Let's try this one more time. I promise it'll be better than last time. Okay. You ready? I'm ready, I think. Okay. I'm tightening. Here we go. I'm pushing. Don't push too hard. Okay, wait. Okay, go. [ Shouting ] [ Chuckles ] You sure know how to crash a party, don't you, kid? All right, that's it. This party's over. Come on, Sara. Let's get outta here. Who are you? What are you talking about? It's me, Dylan. We're here to save you. Remember? [ Snaps ] Fascinating. Save me? Why would I need to be saved when I'm in paradise? That's my girl. Now who exactly is this uninvited, soon-to-be-dead guest? [ Scoffs ] Name's Helsing. Dr. Dan Helsing. Helsing? [ Scoffs ] Sara, come on. It's me. We grew up next to each other. We're best friends. You're my girl. Sorry. Doesn't ring a bell. Oh. Nothing? A fool and his girl are easily separated. All right, that's it. [ Chuckles ] Watch this. Yeah, watch this. You didn't really think I was gonna let you hit me again? Did you? Oh, you did. [ Trey Chuckles ] Will you stand still and fight? Accept it, dude. She's gonna forget all about you and sing my songs for eternity. No more Sara Lane. What did you say? I said, "No more Sara Lane." From now on, you'll be Sara Debyte. Ooh, I like the sound of that. Really? Well, in case you're interested, I don't. [ Trey Shouts ] - What was that? - My name's not "baby" or Sara Debyte. It's Sara Lane! And the only songs that I'm gonna sing are my own! Oh, snap! She's back! Dylan? What's going on? Oh, she's momentarily broken her hypnotic state. Get it ready. Get it ready. Here we go, here we go, here we go. Oh. Just need a drop. Got it. You okay? It's okay. Okay, antidote is ready. Let's get her on her feet. What the hell is that? - It's a cure. - A cure from a Helsing? You know the Helsings don't cure vampires. They kill 'em. Well, actually, we got out of that racket a few generations ago. But thanks for rememberin'. Thought you could fly, kid. You loser! Yeah, I'll show you who's the loser. Who's the one taking home the girl, huh? Think about that one, loser. Ha! It's a long way to the door, kid. I'll see you there. A cure. [ Scoffs, Laughs ] [ Thunderclap ] [ Dylan ] Come on. Come on. Let's go. [ Sara ] What? Where are we going? Huh? Come on, Sara. We're almost there. [ Evil Laughter ] Right here. Right here. Right here. We gotta do this now before she slips back. Okay. There it is. Wait, wait, wait. That's untested, right? Well, technically. Well, then, I have to do it first. Fine. But hurry. Here goes nothing. Hang on. [ Gags ] That's horrible. Yeah. Aah! I'm still here. Let's do it. All right. Give it to her. Come on, Sara. You gotta drink this. What? Is it coffee? [ Together ] Eh. All the way down the chute. There you go. Sara? Sara? Doc, talk to me. What's going on here? What's wrong? Maybe we are too late! Too late? Sara, Sara, come on. Come on. Come on, baby. Sara. Sara. I love you. Dylan? Oh, God! Thank God. Sara. See? I told you all you had to do was try. We did it, Doc. I gotta remember that. "Add kiss." Come on. Let's go. Let's go, let's go! Come on. Get up. Go, go, go, go. Vampires! Aah! You know, Helsing, I never did like science... until we dissected frogs. [ Hissing ] No! [ Screaming ] - No! - It's okay. I've waited my whole life for this moment. Come on, girls. Give me all you got! [ Inaudible ] [ Inaudible ] I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Sara. It's what had to happen. - Thirsty, baby? - Like the Sahara. [ Gasping ] What are we gonna do? I'll take care of this. I may only be half the vampire that you are, but at least I'm not a dirtbag. He's still mortal. Why kill him when you can let them rot together? Drooping skin, thinning hair. Ooh, high blood pressure? Oh, while they rot, we'll stay hot. Is that what you'd like, baby? Oh, more than anything. [ Chuckles ] Well, Luna seems to think I should just let you go and rot... 'cause what else are we gonna do for the next 80 years, right? Whoa. Looks like your little antidote failed you. Well, well! An eye for an eye and a fang for a fang, eh, kid? I'm gonna rip you from ear to ear. And then I'm gonna make Sara mine... again. [ Grunts ] I don't think so. [ Chuckles ] Oh, kid, I think you just got your mojo. - What? - Yeah, the fangs, flashing us to limbo? - That was an accident. - Yeah, your flying is kinda sorry. But I think hanging around with me has been a great thing for you. Oh, yeah. Been awesome. Maybe we should go bowling later. - Ooh, would you like to? - No, I don't. I wanna get back to Sara. Kid. You're-- You're the bite. [ Luna ] He's turning? You're finally the bite. What? [ Luna ] Baby, forget about him and her. What do you say we go find an island with a killer beach? Yeah. And if it's not killer yet, it soon will be. What a strange couple. [ Panting ] Did I miss anything? Dr. Dan, why do we still have fangs? Uh, the-the serum is experimental. So it may take a while to kick in. Or results may vary. What? Good luck! What are we gonna do? It doesn't matter. Whether we die tomorrow, or we live forever, we have each other. That's all that matters. You two have made real progress... accepting whatever you are. Yeah, even though we don't really know if we're fully vampires. Well, at least I got Trey outta my head. And you have each other. Maybe for eternity. Oh. Now, um-- [ Clears Throat ] About that other issue. This tendency to spontaneously burst into song and dance... to express your feelings. Have you resolved that? ♪♪ [ Light Piano ] Oh, I see. Maybe we should meet twice a week. ♪ Time to let go of the status quo ♪ ♪ Don't know whether to come or go ♪ ♪ Enough of this lip tease ♪ ♪ Give your lovin' to me ♪ ♪ What if it's life on the other side? ♪ ♪ What if it's blood that I drink tonight? ♪ ♪ What if I'm a plague on humanity ♪ ♪ That devours you and me? ♪ ♪ I never said that it'd be easy ♪ ♪ Now you know the way to please me ♪ ♪ One, two, three ♪ ♪ Baby, till my last breath ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you to death ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you to death ♪ ♪ Baby, till my last breath ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you to death ♪ ♪ I'll hold you until the end ♪ ♪ And then I'll love you again ♪ ♪ And again, and again, and again ♪ ♪ And again, and again ♪ ♪ Oh ♪ ♪ Never said I wanted a fairy tale ♪ ♪ Not searchin' for love or the holy grail ♪ ♪ My heart's like a bomb ♪ ♪ Are you listenin' to me? ♪ ♪ Listenin' to me, yeah ♪ ♪ Gotta crawl up out of this dirty ground ♪ ♪ Gotta take hold ♪ ♪ Show you what I have found ♪ ♪ Time to stop pretending ♪ - ♪ What is to be is to be ♪ - ♪ For all eternity ♪ ♪ I never said that it'd be easy ♪ ♪ The time has come for you to please me ♪ ♪ Ooh ♪ ♪ Baby, till my last breath ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you to death ♪ ♪ Baby, till my last breath ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you to death ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you ♪ ♪ I'll hold you until the end ♪ ♪ And then I'll love you again ♪ ♪ I'll love you again ♪ ♪ Happily afterlife Happily afterlife ♪ - ♪ I'm gonna love you to death ♪ - ♪ Happily afterlife ♪ ♪ Happily afterlife Happily afterlife ♪ ♪ Happily, happily, happily, hap-- ♪ ♪ Happily, happily, happily, hap-happily ♪ ♪ Happily, happily ♪ ♪ Happily afterlife Happily afterlife ♪ ♪ Oh ♪ ♪ Happily afterlife Happily afterlife ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you to death ♪ ♪ Ohh ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you, oh I'm gonna love you, oh ♪ ♪ I'm gonna love you, oh I'm gonna love you, oh ♪ ♪ Come and join me Come and join me in this party ♪ ♪ This dance of the dead ♪ ♪ Happily afterlife Happily afterlife ♪ ♪ Afterlife, afterlife ♪♪