Hello? Ah yes, of course. Morning, Herbert. Morning. Er, that report on the Cover Hill Estate, is it ready yet? Well, not quite yet. My assistant's working on it, you'll know who that is. Oh, young Hugh, eh? Well, tell him to hurry up. I've had that chap Forrester badgering me again. Regular nuisance, always asking questions. Say Herbert, about that report. There isn't any hitch, is there? No, no, no, no, of course not. You just leave it to me, George. Young Hugh is off to London today for this exam of his. I'll see that he finishes the moment he comes back. Bye, George. Bye. Ahem... Darling, the telephone. Let it ring. But it might be important. This is important. Darling, I... I must. Hello, Hugh Carson speaking. Yes, Sir. Yes, Sir. Right away. It's your father, he wants me. So do I, darling. Yes, but you're not my boss. I will be one day, just you wait. We'll have to wait until we're 100, if I get a say. Off you go then. Don't forget, I'm driving you to the station. I won't. Darling? Yeah? Do you love me? Very much. Good. Ah, come in, my boy. Come in! You wanted to see me, Sir? Yes, I just wanted to wish you success with your exam. Oh, thank you, Sir. How do you feel, nervous? Well, I am a bit. No need to be. I feel assured that you've equipped yourself very credibly indeed. Oh, thank you, Sir. And so I have no doubt, does a certain young lady we know, huh? Well after all, it's up to you. I want to have a son-in-law that I can be proud of. Well, I'll certainly do my very best, Sir. Well, goodbye. Goodbye. Oh, Hugh. Yes, Sir? I've just been glancing through this report of yours, on the Cover Hill Estate. Oh, how'd you like it? Not very much, I'm afraid. Oh? No, frankly it won't do, my boy. It just won't do. What's wrong with it? Well, the whole tone of the thing's wrong in the first place, it's too... Highly coloured. I mean, listen to this. There's been a subsidence between houses four and six, causing fracture to foundations, and a drop of both external wall angles. But so there has. And this. Where are we? Oh yes, owing to inferior materials and unskilled labour, the subterranean pipe joins are insecure. Now I ask you, how can I lay a report like this before the council? It would be open to very gravest misinterpretation. But it's all true, Sir. I mean, I live on the Cover Hill Estate... Oh, I know. Well, the house has only been up one year. You should hear what my mother has to say about it. I admit there are one or two trifling imperfections, maybe, but that's beside the point. What you don't seem to realise, my boy, is that this country's having one of her grave crises. And it's our duty to do our very utmost, with the materials and the manpower at our disposal. Yes, I know, Sir, but... You see, the trouble with you, my boy, is you're suffering from two grave afflictions. What? Youth, and inexperience. You're too impetuous. All right Sir, I'll have another crack at it. I thought you'd see reason. But those drains will have to be re-laid. Re-lay the Cover Hill Estate? Have you any idea what that's going to cost? But they're not safe, Sir. Anything might happen. Oh, poppycock. Delmores, the contractors, are a thoroughly reputable firm. Jim Delmore's a very great friend of your uncle. Wild accusations of that kind, might land you into very hot water. Yes, I suppose they might. Between you and me, you wouldn't have lasted with this firm for a year, if I hadn't acted as a buffer for you. I had no idea. I'm most awfully grateful to you. After all, if one can't... Do something for one's future son-in-law, huh? Sorry if I was a bit pig-headed just now. Oh, that's all right, we won't say anymore about it. But just let me have that report back as soon as you can, will you? Amended, of course. Oh, hello Hugh. Hello, Uncle George. Just been looking for you to wish you goodbye and good luck. Thank you. How's your mother? She's fine, thanks. Give her my love and so forth. Yes, of course. Well, I'd better be going. Good luck. Don't let us down now. Well, I'll try not to. Goodbye, Sir. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye, Uncle George. Herbert, I'd like to have a word with you in private. What about? That report. I didn't like the look in Forrester's eye when you asked me about it. It's gonna be all right, isn't it? Perfectly. You sure? Positive. Should make a very good piece of escapist reading. Well, that's a relief. You know Herbert, some people delight in making mischief. Forrester's one and Hartman, that foreign fellow who runs The Echo, he's another. You can take it from me, George, there's absolutely nothing to worry about. Give 'em the smallest opening, and they're on to you like a pack of dogs. Sound fellow, Jim Delmores, one of the best. Knows a good cigar, too. It's for you, Georgie. Oh dear, another rejection. Wonder which one of my little homing pigeons it is this time? Music Over The Water. I thought it was so good, too. Well, I'm sure it was, dear. You must let me read it sometime. But you did read it. Did I? Yes, and you said it was very good. Well, there you are. You mark my words. One of these days, they'll accept one of your stories, and you're gonna get a nice, fat postal order. "The editor regrets..." You know, I've got enough of these to paper the whole room with. Well, it might be an idea... If the cracks in the walls get any bigger, we'll have to do something. You don't take my work very seriously, do you Mama? Oh, yes I do dear. But it's not like a real job, is it? Now, what you want is a nice post as a secretary, and do your writing in your spare time. You've got to earn your living, you know? Yes I know, and I will soon. Just give me a little more time. All right, dear. I wonder what could be keeping Hugh? If he doesn't hurry, he won't have time for lunch before his train. Probably find that Iris has carried him off. Well anyway, I've kept his lunch hot for him, and I've made him some fresh... Oh! Oh, aw. Oh, oh! Oh, another wretched window stuck again. Oh! Whoa! Hey, where you going? Come back! Are you all right? I hope so. We'd better get some air into this room. Oh, no! Now this is the last straw. Hello. What's the joke? Well, it's this house. It's like one of those things you find at fairs. You know, the house that Jack built. I never come downstairs without thinking they're gonna fold up under me. Then you slide into the bottom with your skirts over your head, whoosh! You know, we're becoming hysterical. Well, I'm glad you find it so funny. Well, I don't really, not in the least. These houses are a positive disgrace, they're just blown together. I must say, it's not much good having a son in the Borough Surveyor's Office, if he doesn't do anything about it. As a matter of fact, I've had a word with Mr Freemantle. What'd he say? Well, he didn't seem to think it was anything wrong, just a few imperfections. Oh! Imperfections indeed! Like this, I suppose? And the window, and the cracks in the walls and the drains, and the, why the... Mother, please! Iris is in the living room. Oh, why didn't you tell me? She's driving me to the station. Oh, I do hope she didn't hear me. Georgie, you'd better go and talk to her. All right. I'll come in in a minute. You, have your lunch. Sorry, I haven't got time. But you must have something. Iris has got some sandwiches in the car. That was very thoughtful of her. Perhaps you'd better go in then. I'll run upstairs and fetch my bag. All right. Quite a few editors have been writing to me recently. Iris, dear. Hello, Mrs Carson. Nice to see you. How pretty you look. Thank you! How's your father? Daddy's fine. We were just talking about him. Weren't we, Georgie? Oh, yes. All set. Ready, Iris? Mm-hm, I'm ready. Oh mother, I almost forgot, would you mind locking that in the drawer for me? Yes dear, what is it? That report I've been working on. But I thought you sent it in? Yes I did, but Mr Freemantle didn't like it. I've got to redo it. Oh, I see. Well, goodbye darling. I'll be thinking about you all the time, so mind you make you a big success of it. I will, don't worry, mother. Best of luck, Hugh. Oh, thanks. Well, goodbye, Jane Austen. Goodbye, Mrs Carson. Goodbye, my dear. And remember, you're always welcome here. Thank you, that's sweet of you. I'll miss my train. Goodbye. You know, Georgie, I'm fond of that girl. Me, too. After all, she can't help who her father is. Of course, she can't. That man and his imperfections. I suppose that means they're gonna do nothing about it. They need someone to put a bomb under them. I suppose it's sheer waste of time, but I have a good mind to have another go at them. Somebody's got to do something. Well, it can't do any harm. Well, I'm not gonna let them fob me off this time. Mummy? Just a minute, darling. Let me do this while I'm still feeling angry. Hello operator? I want Hamington 1231, please. Mummy, just listen to this. Hello, is that the Town Hall? This is Mrs Carson, of 9 Cover Hill. I want to speak to Mr Prior, please. No, I want to speak to him personally. It's about our drainage system. I've telephoned before. Well, he can't be any busier than I am, I'm a housewife! I have written. I'm sorry, but I don't want to discuss it anymore with you. Will you please put me through to Mr... Hello. Hello? Are you there? I've been cut off. They've hung up on me. How dare they! Mummy, just look at this. Georgie, I'm in no mood to read your stories now. But this isn't a story, it's Hugh's report. Hugh's report? But you have no right to look at this. It's marked confidential. Never mind about that. Just read this bit. Owing to inferior materials and unskilled labour, the subterranean pipe joins are insecure, and there's a danger of seepage. But what does that mean exactly? I think Hugh means they're dangerous. Dangerous? Yes, and there's a bit on the next page about the foundation subsiding. Do you mean the house might fall down? I shouldn't be at all surprised. Oh Georgie, you must have got it wrong. It couldn't mean that. At least, I suppose it couldn't. After all, it couldn't be as bad as that. If it had been, Mr Freemantle would never have passed it. Why should he? I don't know. Unless he's being bribed or something? Which is absurd, of course. Now Georgie, we're gonna lock this thing away, and forget we've ever seen it. Very well, mummy. One thing I'm sure about though, they're not gonna hang up on me and get away with it. I'm going round to the Town Hall to tell them so. Forefront of our minds, we have decided to erect at suitable locations on all roads leading into our town, dignified and well-designed notices. Large enough for all motorists to read, no matter how short-sighted they may be. Notices bearing the inscription... Will you excuse me? ...Hamington takes pride in its citizens, we hope you will take care. Thanks, thanks. It would be neither modest nor fitting of me to conclude, without drawing attention to the splendid work of our surveyor, Mr Freemantle. Here, here! Utterly ridiculous. And our Mr Prior. What is? Why, this whole meeting, of course. The way they're sitting there, handing out bouquets to each other. They've got nothing to be proud of, I can tell you. If you knew what I know. What do you know? Well, I... I can't tell you that. But it so happens that I have private information. ...And valuable citizens of the future. Could I have a picture, Mr Mayor, of yourself, Mr Freemantle, and Mr Prior? Standing. Certainly, certainly. The smugness of the man. Shocking. Somebody ought to make a protest. That's an excellent idea. Why don't you? Who, me? Yes, why not? Mr Mayor. Mr Mayor! This is a public meeting, and I am a citizen of this town. I have something to say, which I wish the council to hear. But madam, the meeting is over. I didn't interrupt before, out of politeness. Order, madam. I must ask you to sit down. I have made repeated complaints about the disgraceful condition of my house, but not a single soul has had the courtesy to pay me a visit. Madam, this is neither the time nor the place. Don't you Madam me, George Carson, you know perfectly well who I am. Order, order! I will not be shouted down. Mr Mayor, I have just listened to your speech, about ideal conditions of model houses. It's a lot of rubbish. You ought to see the cracks in the walls on that estate. Be quiet. I will not be quiet! I shall sit down when I've had my say. Put her out. You haven't been near those houses for months, otherwise you couldn't talk the way you do. They're falling to bits. The foundations are sinking. And the... The drains are a disgrace, too! They're made of faulty materials, and the subterranean pipe joins are insecure. And why? Because of bad workmanship, bad material, bad supervision. Somebody closed his eyes to something somewhere, and that suggests one thing to me. Bribery, graft, whatever you would like to call it. But we are the people that have to suffer. Perhaps now, something will be done about it? Mrs Carson. Hello Mummy, you have been a long time. Did you manage to see anybody? Yes, I saw them all. There was a council meeting when I got there. Oh, what a pity. Then you didn't say anything. Well, I did just manage to get in a few words. What did you say? I accused the entire borough council of graft and corruption. Mummy! You remember you said somebody ought to put a bomb under them. Well, I did. And it went off, and it certainly made a bang. It must have! You should have seen your uncle's face. How wonderful, what did you say? Tell you the truth, I don't really remember what I said. I got so angry with them all sitting there, like a lot of stuffed owls, patting each other on the back, that I just lost my temper, and said everything that came into my head. Anyway, now perhaps they'll... What's the matter? Aren't you feeling well? It's just a headache. Why, you're looking a little pale. I hope you're not sickening for anything, there's a lot of flu about. It's just another headache. I've been having an awful lot of them recently. I think I must get my eyes tested. It's all that typing. You ought to put it aside for a bit. Yes, I don't think I'll do anymore for this evening, anyway. I should think not indeed. Now then, you just run straight upstairs, my girl. Take a couple of aspirins, and pop into bed. I'll bring up some hot milk. I think I will. Thank you, mummy. Hello? Yes, Mrs Carson speaking. The Echo? No, I'm afraid I don't. Where did you say we met? What, you were sitting next to me? Of course, I remember now, but I do think you might have told me who you were. No, I have nothing to add, I think I've said more than enough. Evidence? No, of course I haven't. I said I had what? Private information. Oh Mr Hartman, you must've misunderstood me. I'm sure I never said anything of the sort. Yes, definitely. Please, you must excuse me. As far as I'm concerned, the incident is closed. Goodbye. Now, gentlemen. Gentlemen! Order please, gentlemen. Mr Mayor, may I be allowed to say a few words? Very well, Councillor Forrester, but make 'em as few as you can. Thank you. Mr Mayor, fellow councillors, the fair name of this borough, and indeed, the fair names of all of us have been impugned. Now, while I'm sure that each of you are as clear in your conscience as I am in mine, no atom of suspicion, concerning the integrity of any one of us, should be allowed to linger in the public mind. I therefore move, that a writ be immediately be applied for, of a charge of slander against Mrs Charlotte Carson. Surely, it would be hardly fitting for us to institute proceedings against Mr Mayor's sister-in-law. I should think not indeed. Fine fool I should look. Besides, my poor brother Tom would turn in his grave. If I may be allowed to say so, Mr Mayor, it's better to look a fool than a rogue. Are you accusing me? What I meant of course was, that we should all be made to appear rogues, if we fail to take action. Well, there's something in that. He's right, you know. We'll have to prosecute. I'm prepared to second the motion. Order, order, order. Gentlemen, please don't let us be hasty. I'm sure this whole matter can be straightened out, without any unpleasant legal complications. I'm not defending my sister-in-law. She lost her temper, acting like a silly fool, and I'm going to tell her so. But I think those of you who are married, will agree with me that most ladies do act stupidly when they lose their tempers. Which is a downsight too often. Afterwards, of course, they're sorry. Meek as lambs. Well, that's dear old Charlotte all over. You can take it from me, she's been crying her eyes out all night. Now gentlemen, we don't want to be vindictive, do we? No. No. No. No. I thought so, I thought so. Well, Councillor Forrester? Gentlemen, I'm not going to make an appeal to your emotions, and I have no talents as a public entertainer. Believe me, I have nothing personal against Mrs Charlotte Carson. Mr Mayor has assured us that she has been crying her eyes out all night. That may be so, maybe not. For all I know, she may now be sleeping peacefully. But weeping or sleeping, her private grief cannot expunge the public accusations, which I have been given to understand, will be fully reported, in Friday's issue of our local newspaper. Would Councillor Forrester's objections be met by a written retraction of the charges, and an unreserved apology from Mrs Carson? Has she expressed her willingness to do so? Don't worry about that, she will. When? Right away. This morning, or this afternoon. In that case, I would like to substitute an alternative motion. I move that no further action be taken before noon tomorrow, to allow time for a statement, satisfactory to the council's legal advisors, to be drawn up and executed. I further move that should no document be forthcoming by the specified time, then without further discussion, immediately application be made, for a writ of slander against Mrs Charlotte Carson. I second the motion. Well then, those in favour? Carried unanimously. Meeting adjourned. Fine mess you've let me in for. She's your sister-in-law. That wasn't her language. What does she know about subterranean pipe joins? She doesn't know a hoist from a joist. No, she must've got it from Hugh, or else his report. You must have been crazy to give a job like that, to a lad of his age. He's your nephew. Can I help that? You put him on the report, didn't you? You might have known that he couldn't be trusted to keep his mouth shut. And, by the way, I thought you told me that there was nothing wrong with the Cover Hill job? Oh, he's very probably making mountains out of mole hills. Herbert, are you prepared to face an inquiry? No. Frankly, I'm not. Oh, you blundering fool. How much has Jim Delmore been paying you? Have you the right to ask that question? I might have had one or two presents from Jim, but I've relied on you to do your job! I'm not a surveyor. If there was anything seriously wrong, it was up to you to tell me about it. I wonder what you'd have said if I had? Are you insinuating... No George, I'm not. I knew you wished to remain in ignorance, with a clear conscience and a rising bank balance. I'm glad you admit it, anyhow. I never knew. I'll remember that. By the way, what about your sister-in-law? Do you think she'll sign an apology? It won't be easy. She's a stubborn one, Charlotte. Whenever I see her, we have an argument. She's never apologised to me, yet. Dolly doesn't hit it off with her, either. Then I should imagine that she's not over-burdened with this world's goods issue. No, Tom never did very much good. For himself, I mean. He was a parson. And her house belongs to the council. Houses aren't very easy to find these days. I see what you mean. Then, there's young Hugh. How much do we pay him? 600 a year. A lot of money for a young chap. And you can't exactly say that he's been a credit to the council, now can you? No. Personally, I should say that young man is definitely expendable. As an assistant? Or as a son-in-law? Both. Hugh. Darling. You came, I knew you would. But what's it all about? Come inside, and I'll tell you. Well, it better be good. Do you realise I've had to skip my exam? There were reporters there, and photographers and everything. Good Lord, doesn't sound like Mother. Of course, Daddy came home breathing fire. Well after all, he's been borough surveyor of Hamington since Alfred The Great, and no one's even said boo to him before. He says it reflects on him personally. Well, I suppose it does, in a way. He says she must've got it all from you, so now he's after your blood and your mother's blood, and the blood of your asses and your camels, and your sheep, if you've got any. So I thought I'd better wire you. I'm glad you did. Poor mother, she's certainly put her foot in it this time. Well darling, you haven't been to see us for a long time. Is this a social call, or have you come to give me a telling-off? It isn't a social call. Won't you sit down? Thank you, I prefer to stand. Oh. I suppose George is furious with me. What do you expect, after yesterday? Well, I did rather let my back hair down. I can think of other words to describe your behaviour, so can George. I've been meaning to give him a ring and tell him that, of course, I meant nothing personal. But poor Georgie has a nasty chill, and I'm keeping her in bed, so I've been up to my eyes all morning. I must say, you seem to be taking the whole thing very lightly, Charlotte. Well, there's no use making heavy weather of it, is there? I mean, something had to be said and I said it, that's all. You told a pack of wicked lies. I did not. My dear Dolly, the houses on this estate are an absolute disgrace. Well, if you care to come on a tour of inspection, you can see for yourself. I'm not one of those women who enjoy making scenes, but if something gets done at last about these wretched houses, it'll have been worth it. It seems to me, they're much too good for some of the people who live in them. And then they have the effrontery to talk about bribery and graft. Oh. Is that what George is so upset about? Well, naturally. But Dolly, I didn't call George a crook. How very considerate of you. But there must be some sort of a fiddle going on somewhere. Somebody must be getting a rake-off. I mean, people don't jerry-build houses like that for the sheer fun of it. It stands to reason. Does it? Oh, dear. Oh, Dolly. I do assure you that I never for a moment considered anything shady with George. Oh... Oh, I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll sit down now, and send him a little note of apology. Yes Charlotte, that's exactly what you will do. What do you mean? What is it? Read it. But what's it meant to be? Read it. "I, Charlotte Carson, of 9 Cover Hill Hamington, "hereby of my own free will retract each and every one "of the charges made by me, "in relation to the Cover Hill Estate. "These charges, I now recognise to have been "malicious, false, and devoid of all foundation. "I therefore withdraw them "unreservedly and tender my fullest apologies "to the Mayor and Borough Council of Hamington, "and to all others concerned." But... I can't sign this, it's ridiculous. I advise you to think very carefully. But I'm not going to crawl like that. Nobody can make me. Besides, I don't withdraw everything. What I said was true. Of course, I can't actually prove that there's been graft. You admit you can't prove it. Not in a court of law. Well, that's exactly where you're going to find yourself if you don't sign. Have you any idea what the penalties are for slander? Even if you are a rich woman, they could send you to prison. I see. This house, it's a council lease, isn't it? Why, yes. I don't suppose you'll be sorry to go. Though accommodation is very hard to find. You mean they'd revoke the lease? Well, you're not exactly a desirable tenant, are you? But they couldn't do that. We've got to live in Hamington, there's Hugh's job. Is there? This is blackmail. Please don't be rude, Charlotte. I'm merely trying to save you from the consequences of your own folly. Thanks. I'm beginning to think that George must have a very uneasy conscience. What do you mean? Nothing, it doesn't matter. I'll sign it, I haven't any choice. Please don't sign it now, Charlotte. Why not? It has to be properly witnessed. George is calling a special meeting of the council tonight at six o'clock. The public will be admitted, the press will be invited. You are to read this aloud before the council, and then sign. George is doing me proud, isn't me? You made these stupid accusations in public, you must retract them in the same way. That's only fair. Shall I come with a rope around my neck, or would you prefer sackcloth and ashes? Charlotte, you're totally irresponsible. You never take anything seriously. I'll see myself out. Good morning, Mrs Carson. Oh, it's you, Mr Hartman. I'm sorry, I can't talk to you now. But I have something very important to say to you. It's no use. Besides, I'm not feeling very well. I passed your sister-in-law just now. She's been here to threaten you. How did you know? I thought so. Perhaps you had better come inside, Mr Hartman. Thank you. I admire your taste, Mrs Carson. You have a nice home. I had a nice home. These few pieces are all I have left. Now, Mr Hartman, what is it? Won't you sit down? Thank you. Yesterday, in the Town Hall, you said a number of very unpleasant things. Unpleasant that is to certain people, correct? You don't have to remind me. Today, these certain people have, shall we say, asked you to take back these unpleasant things. Correct? Correct. And you've said no? I have said yes. Well, that is a great pity. I'm sorry to disappoint you, Mr Hartman. But frankly, I am not in the least interested in building your circulation. Circulation? Ah yes, before I was a journalist, I was a doctor. So you see, whenever I hear circulation, I still think first of blood and arteries. Cigarette? No, thank you. May I? Please. Thank you. But I see what you mean, Mrs Carson. It's true, I'm interested in the circulation of my paper. But I am more interested in the circulation of this town. And there's poison in its blood. Yesterday, you diagnosed it correctly. Corruption, greed, and I thought, here's someone who will help to rid the town of this poison. And, now? You mean you're waging a sort of one-man crusade? You might call it that, but I'm not alone. I know it's stupid and bullish of me, but you're not a... I mean, you're a... Allow me. You wish to say, I can't stand these foreigners, who come here and start criticising, and finding fault with everything. If they don't like it here, why don't they go back to their own countries? Right? I don't know that I'd have put it quite as bluntly as that. It's very natural. Let me... Let me try to explain. Even when I was a little boy, I admired England and her democratic institutions. So when my country became corrupt, I decided to leave it and make my home here. It's almost 20 years, since I took out my naturalisation papers. So you see, I am very, very British indeed. But if my new country became corrupt, then I guess I would leave her also. But my heart would be very sad. Well, if it's any satisfaction to you, you've made me feel thoroughly ashamed of myself. Then, you will help me? I'd like nothing better, but it's impossible. You're frightened? Yes, I am. Mrs Carson, do you think you can trust me? Well yes, I think so. Then believe me, you have nothing to fear. Oh, I'm afraid you're wrong. If you do not sign a written apology, they have threatened to sue you, correct? Yes, I have it here. Monsters! You've not already signed this? Not yet. Hah, I knew. There's to be a gala performance at the Town Hall at 6:00 PM sharp. I am to be thrown to the lions publicly. The press are invited, by the way. And they think you will do this? What a joke. It's not you they've threatened to sue if I don't, Mr Hartman. Oh yes, it is. If they sue you, they must sue me, as well. Why? Because, unless you are so foolish as to sign this retraction, Friday's issue of The Echo will contain a full report of your speech, and the leading article, which I've written myself, and which I think you'll find interesting. So you see, you will have uttered the slander, and I will have published a libel. Since I am publisher, and printer and editor, they'll ask for more damages than I could ever hope to pay. You're certainly a glutton for punishment, Mr Hartman. But I don't think I really know you well enough yet to want to go to jail with you. But we will not go to jail. I tell you, they are bluffing. Let's call their bluff. Do you mean they won't sue? Oh, they will sue. But it's the last thing they want to do, the crooked ones. They must sue, but they can't win their case. How do you know? Can you produce legal evidence that there's been corruption? No. Nor can I. So, we go to jail? I have some evidence, so has my friend Forrester. But it's not enough. We cannot go into a court of law, and say this and this has happened, and here's the proof. But if they take action, we can demand a full judicial inquiry. They cannot avoid it. Private banking accounts will be gone into, and the truth will be bound to come out. It's not we who will go to jail, they will. Now, do you understand? Yes. If I had only myself to think of, but I haven't. My daughter's never been strong, and there's... There's my son's career. Supposing something were to go wrong, supposing the evidence weren't forthcoming? I daren't risk it. You said you had some private information. What was it? I swear I won't disclose it without your permission. It was a report that my son prepared for Mr Freemantle on the Cover Hill Estate. Mr Freemantle said it wasn't satisfactory. Why? I don't know. It was unfavourable? Yes. Very, as far as I could make out. Where is your son? I would like to talk with him. Well, I'm afraid you can't. He's in London taking an exam. He won't be back for several days. And he took the report with him? No, I have it here. Mrs Carson, suppose you were to lend me that report and... Oh, I couldn't do that, it's confidential. Please, let me finish. I want to show it to Mr Forrester, in the strictest confidence. Oh, I daren't. He knows whether it contains evidence that the work on this estate has been so deliberately skimped, that no honest surveyor could have passed it. And if he says yes? Then I come back to you and I say, "Mrs Carson, we've been granted a sign from Heaven. "We cannot fail, you've got to help me." And if he says no? Then I promise I'll go away if you want me to, and not to trouble you anymore. Now please, may I have that report? That's Hugh's knock. But it can't be. Will you please excuse me, Mr Hartman? Of course. Hugh, why aren't you in London? I sent for him, Mrs Carson. Mother, we've got to talk to you. Well, we'll go into the kitchen if Iris doesn't mind. There's someone in the living room. Oh, that's all right. Who's in there? Mr Hartman, why? Do you mean Alex Hartman of The Echo? Yes, do you know him? Daddy says he's a raving Bolshie. Oh Iris, do keep your voice down. These walls are like paper. You can hear every word. Sorry. Personally, I find him very charming. Oh, is he a beau of yours or something? Don't be silly, I only met him yesterday. Mother, you're not giving him an interview? Haven't you done enough already? He had to know sooner or later, Mrs Carson. And I thought the sooner, the better. What exactly did Iris tell you? Oh, only that you'd made the most frightful scene in the council meeting, and got us all into hot water, up to our necks. Oh, I didn't quite put it like that. No, but that's what it boils down to, isn't it? Hugh, I don't intend to be bullied, thank you. I'm not in the dark, yet. I'm sorry, darling, I didn't mean to be rude. It's just that I'm still a little bit dazed, that's all. Well, I did go to the meeting, and I did interrupt it, and I did make a speech. Hm, I gather you didn't mince any words. No, I was most eloquent. Daddy is simply furious. The poor darling's frothing like a mug of beer. So is your Uncle George, and so are quite a number of other people. But the trouble is, they've got it in for Hugh, too. I know, that's the worst part of it. Never mind, darling. We'll just have to see what a little soft soap all around can do. Soft soap? Well, didn't you know? They want me to return to the scene of the crime, and make a public confession of my sins. Well, I suppose it might've been a lot worse. I am to state that the charges I brought, were malicious, unfounded, immoral, and insane. I am then to execute a document of that effect. In triplicate, of course. And have it duly attested by a justice of the peace, a notary public, and a commissioner of oaths. I am then to present the top copy to Iris' father, in a portfolio bound in my own skin. I didn't think that was particularly funny, Mother. No, nor did I. I am sorry, Iris. Oh, that's quite all right. You want me to apologise, don't you, Hugh? I don't see what else you can do. In fact, it beats me whatever even made you behave like that first. This, it's not like you. It's so... Undignified. Undignified? When the roof leaks, the walls are cracked, and the drains are rotten? The houses on this estate may not be gems of architecture. In fact, I know they're not, but that's the fault of modern conditions. Oh, is it? We've got to make the best of the labour, and building materials at our disposal. After all, we're passing through a great crisis. Daddy says we've been passing through a series of crises, ever since he was a boy. I expect he got that from Hugh, dear. What do you mean? Just that it's becoming more and more difficult to tell where Hugh begins and your father leaves off. I don't think I like that. I'm sorry, Iris, but there it is. The voice is Hugh's voice, but the words are Mr Freemantle's. Mother. I like that even less. Iris. I respect you, and I'm very fond of you. If I've hurt you, I'm deeply sorry. But in the last 24 hours, I've developed a habit of speaking my own mind, and it's growing on me rapidly. I don't think your mother has any intention of making that apology. Have you, Mrs Carson? I don't think I've really made up my mind. Hugh thinks I should. What do you think? You want my honest opinion? Please. If I had a son, and I'd gone to a party, say, and dropped some colossal brick, and then found out that I'd risked losing him his job, and hurt a lot of other innocent people into the bargain, I'd be willing to apologise until the cows came home. But supposing the brick you dropped, happened to be the truth, and the people weren't so innocent as they pretended? Well, that would be quite different, of course. Exactly. What do you mean by that? Mother, stop. No. Let her go on. Who are these not-so-innocent people Mrs Carson? The council? Some of them, yes. Well, that's rather vague, isn't it? Who in particular? Oh, I'd rather not say. Hugh, I think you'd better take Iris home. We'll talk this over by ourselves. Come on... No! If she's got anything to say about Daddy, I want to hear it. It is my father you're talking about, isn't it? Well, he is the borough surveyor. You're mad. Yes Mother, you've no right to say such things. You haven't the slightest idea what you're talking about. Oh, I've learned a lot, you'd be surprised. From that fellow Hartman. You've been listening to him. Yes, he's taught me a great deal. So have you, my dear. I have? You see, I read your report. But I asked you to lock it away, not to read it. Hugh. You're my son and I know your character. You're honest and simple and truthful, but you'll go a long way to avoid trouble. But when it came to putting things down in writing, you couldn't lie, you had to tell the truth. And that's why Mr Freemantle would never dare to show that report. Stands out a mile. You're reading a lot of things into it that aren't there. Am I? Can you swear to me that you sincerely believe him to be an honest and upright man? If you can, I'll gladly believe you, and beg his pardon on my bended knees. Can you? Answer her, Hugh. I can't. It isn't a fair question. I said answer her. Well, Hugh? No. No, I'm afraid I can't. Oh my dear, I'm so sorry. I think you must both be mad. It's the kindest explanation I can think of. Iris! Well mother, I hope you're satisfied. You've lost me my exam, you've lost me my job, and now Iris. And all in 24 hours, too. Congratulations. I'm clearing out of here. Hugh! Hugh! I'm so sorry. You heard? Do you understand, I... I can't. He'd never forgive me. Of course. Is there anything I can do for you? Then I'll go now. I hope one day we'll meet again. Mother! Yes Georgie, I'm just coming. How are you feeling? I've been asleep. Headache any better? Still there. Mummy, have you been having row with someone? A row? I thought I heard voices. You must have been dreaming. Here, let me puff your pillow up for you. I'm just going out to do some shopping. Is there anything you want? No thank you, darling. If you're not any better by tomorrow, we'll have the doctor in. Oh, I expect I'll be all right. If only I could get rid of this beastly headache. I'll get you some fresh water before I go. Thank you, mummy. And about time, too. We ought to be very grateful to her. If you ask me, we ought to put her up for mayor. Get rid of what we've got. Good afternoon, Mrs Carson. We were just saying what a good thing you've done. I wish I had your nerve. Proper hero, you are. Afraid I made a fool of myself. Nothing of the sort. You only said what we're all thinking. We're very glad you did it. Two pounds of apples, please. Mother. Oh, Hugh. Fellow councillors and fellow citizens, this is a very painful and solemn occasion for me. Yesterday, a deplorable incident happened in this council chamber. Certain allegations, concerning the Cover Hill Estate, were made by a member of the public, who also happens to be of close relation of mine. These allegations are of such a nature as to cast grave discredit on the administration of this municipality. But I am happy to say that the lady in question, has now repented of her folly, and wishes to withdraw her charges, as publicly as they were made. I can only trust that the members of the press, whose unflagging interest in our municipal affairs is so great, will give space in their columns, to the statement which she is about to make. Will Mrs Charlotte Carson come to the table, please? I should've liked to have avoided this if I could, Charlotte. Yes, I'm sure you would. You brought it on yourself, you know. Have you got the statement? Yes. I have it here. Well, go ahead, and speak up so that they can all hear. I, Charlotte Carson, of 9 Cover Hill, Hamington, hereby and of my own free will, retract each and every one of the charges made by me, in relation to the Cover Hill Estate. These charges I now recognise to have been malicious, false, and devoid of all foundation. I therefore withdraw them unreservedly, and tender my fullest apologies to the Mayor, and the Borough Council of Hamington, and to all others concerned. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the statement which I have been asked to sign, not of my own free will, but under threat of prosecution, eviction from my home, and the termination of my son's appointment, as a public servant. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is my reply. The charges I brought yesterday were true. I repeat them today. And I will repeat them, if necessary in a court of law. I challenge them to bring a prosecution. This is intolerable. The meeting is adjourned. Listen to me, all of you. You and I are the rate payers of this town. It was our money that paid for the Cover Hill Estate, and a fine scheme it was, too. But what have we got for it? Not houses that we can be proud of, and our children after us, but eggshells you can poke your fingers through. In a couple of years, they'll be slums. Now, where has all that money gone? Where is it now? I demand a public inquiry to find out. Mr Carson, your mother would make a remarkable public speaker. She should go into politics. Oh! Heaven forbid. Hugh, will you take Mr Hartman into the living room, and I'll take a look at Georgie? Huh. Oh, let me give you a hand, Mr Hartman. Thanks. All right, come on in. Thank you. I haven't thanked you properly yet for letting me have that report. Oh, that's all right. Well, would you like a glass of sherry? We've got a bottle somewhere. Oh yes, thank you. Hugh! Coming, Mother! Ring up Dr Parson, and ask him to come around immediately. Georgie's terrible and I think she's delirious. Hurry, dear! Yes, Mother. Excuse me, will you? Georgie's much worse. Hamington 2937, please and hurry, will you? It's urgent. Georgie? Georgie, darling. Well, do you know where I can reach him? It's very urgent. Oh, I see. Mummy darling, is that you? Oh, I do feel awful. Dr Parson will be here directly, darling. Hugh's just phoning him. Did you get him, is he coming? No, he has an emergency. But I've left a message for him to come around soon. Hugh, we can't wait for him. Ask Mr Hartman to come up here. Mr Hartman? Don't ask questions, just do as I say. All right. Is she very ill? She has a high fever. I would like to ring the hospital. The hospital? Is it something serious? I hope not. You understand it's a long time since I've practiced medicine. I cannot be sure. Oh. Cover her with a few more blankets. She must be kept as warm as possible. Will you ask your mother to come down here, please? Yes. Mrs Carson, I've arranged for an ambulance to take Georgie to the hospital. She'll be kept under observation there. Now, do not be alarmed. There may be nothing at all to worry about. But, meanwhile, there are certain precautions that you must take. Precautions? You must not drink any water in this house, that has not first been boiled. But why? What are you trying to tell me? The hospital has had three similar cases from this area today, and they are afraid it may be... It may be typhoid. Typhoid? Oh, Georgie. And supplies of Chloromycetin are being flown from the United States, in an all-out effort to control the outbreak of typhoid fever, which today claimed five new victims. How is she, doctor? As well as can be expected. Is she going to be all right? We won't know that, I'm afraid, until the crisis comes. Well, when will that be? In about a week. This is Donald Davis, your worldwide reporter, speaking to you from Hamington, England, where the typhoid outbreak, first reported a week ago, has reached the proportions of an epidemic. Under the great pall of grief, which hangs like a cloud over the city, tempers are rising. The usually stolid Britishers, who walk the streets of Hamington, today are angry men and women, for the newly-formed citizen's committee, headed by Councillor Joseph P. Forrester, has openly accused Mayor Carson, Borough Surveyor Freemantle, and four other civic dignitaries of graft in the allocation of municipal contracts. But Daddy, do you know what they're saying? Have you nothing better to do than listen to idle gossip? Gossip? How can you talk like that when all those poor people...? I can't sleep at night for thinking about them. What about me? Don't you think I've got worries enough already? Gonna be quite hard enough for me to get out of this mess, as it is without you making things worse. So Hugh was right after all? I don't know what you're talking about. And all my life, I've always believed in you. You're horrible! You've heard nothing yet? No, I'm still waiting. I've been reading through all these stories of hers. They're really very good. I'd like to take some of them away, and read them, if I may? Would you? I like them. Of course, it may be just that I'm her mother. Oh, Alex. Oh Charlotte, my dear. I feel so guilty. About what? I just realised I always took Georgie for granted, and how much I devoted myself to Hugh. Oh, I'm sure you didn't. You only think it. No, it's true. She's always seemed such a little girl. I never took her seriously over her work, her ambition. It must have hurt her, but she never showed a sign of jealousy. Now I'm afraid I may not have a chance to make it up to her. Oh, come now, she's young. She'll be all right. She'll be well again. We'll give her a little longer. If she doesn't improve, we'll have to call her mother. Should I put the screens around her? Might be as well, give her a little privacy. Swine. What? Who? No, tell them to... Wait. Yes, I'll see them. Send them in. Well, what do you want? I'm busy. We shan't keep you long. We're here to demand your resignation. Well, you can whistle for it. I'm not going to be made the scapegoat. If you look at this list, you'll see that three other resignations are called for. Why isn't Freemantle's name here? If anybody's to blame, he is. Freemantle is in hospital. Typhoid? He tried to shoot himself an hour ago. If he lives, his name will be added. Freemantle. We have drafted this for your signature. A public inquiry has been called for. You'll have to face charges. Mother, go to bed. I'm not tired. It's after midnight. Is it? You've hardly slept for a week. There'll be plenty of time to sleep... Later. Should I ring the hospital? No dear, we can't keep on bothering them. We're not the only ones. They'll let us know when... They'll let us know. Yes, I suppose so. You go up to bed if you're tired. I shall be all right. No, no. I've got a lot of work to do. I can make some tea if... Hamington 0192. Yeah. One moment, please. Mother, it's for you. Is it...? Mrs Carson speaking. Yes, I understand. I'll come at once. Mrs Carson, I thought you ought to be on hand. I haven't been able to do much, I'm afraid. It's up to her now. Has she a chance? Oh, yes. I don't see why not. Now you sit down, and I'll give you a call if she gets worse. It's such a long time, such a struggle. That may be good. Come now, Charlotte. You mustn't cross your bridges. She has an equal chance of recovering. We must think of the good things. Of her being well again, and what she's going to do. I've read those stories of hers that you gave me. You're right, she has a talent for writing. But she needs experience. Perhaps she might care to work for me? I need someone on the paper. Of course, it would be a very junior position, but I could keep an eye on her, give her some reporting to do. Do you think she'd like that? Yes, I think she would. Mrs Carson, would you come please? Is there any hope? I can't tell. Hugh, darling. She's over the crisis. She's going to live. Oh, mother. Oh, Alex! She's going to live! Charlotte, I'm so glad for you. I... I can't tell you how happy I am. Darling. Oh, Hugh. I've been so miserable. Me, too. Forgive me? Forgive you? You've done nothing to be forgiven for. Oh, darling. You were right, I was in the wrong. Oh Iris, my dear. Well, this calls for a celebration. What do you think, Alex? Alex! I think I like being called Alex. It sounds friendly. Friendly. Hm, I like that!