(haunting music) (haunting music continues) (water rushing) (distant howl) (music crescendos) (water hissing) (package rustling) (gentle music) - Mm. (spoon scraping) (gentle music continues) (trees rustling) (fawn bleats) (gentle music continues) (footsteps crunching) (water rushing) (pump swishing) (phone dings) (pump swishing) (eerie music) (water dripping) (water splashes) (restless music) - No. Oh shit. No, no, no, no. (restless music continues) (water splashes) (hiker gasping) (water splashes) (music ends) (hiker sighs) (metal scraping) (unapetizing splash) (hiker replaces lid) (hiker exhales) (hiker stirs restlessly) (ground crunching) (distant howl) (hiker sighs) (tent zips) (birds chirping) (sighs) No. (water dripping) (water rushing) (footsteps crunching) (water rushing) (pump swishing) - Hello? (exertion) Hey, you mind if I join you? - Sure. (footsteps splashing) (hiker humming) - Oh, sorry. Clown feet. (pump swishing) (hiker humming) - It's easier than a hand pump. - Yeah. - Want me to fill yours up? I got plenty. - I'm good. Thanks. - No worries. It's kinda overkill for one bottle, but I'm testing it out. - Hmm. I'm Ford, by the way. - Irving. - It's good to see someone out here. Haven't seen anybody in days. - Same. - You solo hiking? (ominous tone) - Yeah. - Same. Trying out sections all year. Trying out new gear, cutting weight where I can. Well, thanks for letting me talk your ear off. - No problem. - Maybe we'll run into each other further along down the Trail. - Weren't you heading North? - Oh, I just backtracked for the water. (water rushing continues) We can hike it together, if you're all right with the company. - Sure. (haunting music) - [Ford] Hey, you know why they call it lichen? - [Irving] Why? - [Ford] 'Cause it's when a moss and a fungus take a lichen to each other. (Irving laughs) How many miles are you doing? - [Irving] I'm not sure. - [Ford] You're not worried about the cold? - I brought sweaters. I'll be fine. (footsteps crunching) (trees rustling) (Irving sighs) What is that? - It's a cairn. Trail marker. Helps people find their way, especially if The Trail isn't well maintained. - Hmm. - Some people do it for fun, but it can mess with the ecosystem. It's a right here. This junction's only a day away from the next lake. - That's the long way, isn't it? - It is. But someone's warning us not to go that way. Could be something dangerous, like a rock slide or something. - I can handle some rocks. - Are you sure? - Yeah, I'm sure. - Okay. Well, it was good to have some company. If you need anything, you know where to find me. Stay safe. (footsteps crunching) (ominous music) (water rushing) (distant howl roars) (ominous music continues) (omnimous music continues) (water sounds fall away) (omnimous music crescendos) (water sounds return) (dark music) (footsteps crunching) - Ford? (hammock rustles) - Hey. - (gasps) Oh, sh. - It's good to see ya. - Hmm. - How'd the other trail go? - Not great, obviously. - Have you eaten yet? (fire crackling) - Here you go. Careful, it's hot. - Mm. Whoa. That's pretty good. - Thanks. - Mm. - Sorry it's not much though. Trying to forage as much as I can this trip. - Forage? Like finding truffles? - Kind of. It's a lot easier than you think. - Is it safe? - If you know what you're doing. My dad took me camping a lot when I was a kid. First time I remember, I was six. I was running around collecting every single plant I could find. Found this patch of foxglove under this redwood that was split down the middle, struck by lightning. There were these little red berries on 'em. A few minutes later my parents found me passed out. - Oh my gosh. - After that, I wanted to learn as much about plants as I could. Turns out there's a lot. - Like what berries to eat. - Exactly. - So what are these guys? - Claytonia perfoliata, miner's lettuce It's pretty common out here. At least in the woods. Boil it in some water, throw in a bouillon cube, and you got yourself some soup. Sometimes I bring a few onions or some garlic to give it a little extra flavor. - So are you like a botanist back in the real world, or a chef? - (laughs) I'm a paramedic. Going on two years. I was an EMT before that. - Wow. - What about you? What brought you out here? (wind whistles) - It's an escape. Hmm. It is simpler out here, and peaceful. - I get that. There's not a lot of things in life that make sense, but this does. - Yeah. (fire crackling continues) - You know those trail markers? How do you know they're guiding you the right way, if you don't even know who put them there? - You don't. But they've never steered me wrong. (deep boom) (car revving) (water bubbling) Irving. (Irving gasps) Rise and shine. It's a beautiful morning! (Irving sighs) (Irving sighs) - Where do you get it all? - The oatmeal? - The energy. - Oh, I really don't know. - Well, you scared the crap outta me. - Sorry about that. I dried your clothes, by the way. - My clothes? (footsteps) - Thank you. - No problem. I boiled some water, too, if you need it for oatmeal, or coffee. - You have coffee? Oh, Yeah, yeah. (water rushing) (footsteps) - Sorry. I make my coffee strong. - Not another word. (Ford clears his throat) (Irving sighs) - Campsite's just another quarter mile around the lake. - You said that an hour ago. - Well, that's the secret. It's always a quarter mile. (soaring music) There it is. - [Irving] It's breathtaking. - [Ford] Nothing like it. - You don't waste any time, do you? - Nope. I didn't get much sleep last night, so I'm probably gonna knock out early. - Mm. (Irving grunts) (bag rustling) - Four-man tent. - What? - It's just a big tent for one person. - Well, at least I just have one tent and not two. - Well, actually, one's a bug net and the other's a hammock, and both weigh less than that. (Irving laughs) (wind rustles) (distant howl) - Hey. - Hmm? - Are you all right? - Yeah. (fly buzzing) Yeah. Do you ever go swimming? - Ooh, not this time of year. Too cold. - I think I wanna try, even if it's freezing. It is just awe-inspiring. It looks untouched, like we're the only people who've ever been here. (creek flowing) (distant howl) (uneasy music) (bag zips) (uneasy music continues) (Irving sighs) (rustling) (wind rustles) (gentle music) (distant howl) (yearning music) (water splashing) (water splashing) (eerie music) (intense music) (Irving gurgling) (Irving yelping) - Ford! (water bubbling) (intense music continues) (Irving groans in pain) - Okay, stay with me, Irving. Hang in there. (intense music continues) It's gonna hurt. (Irving screaming) Hang in there. Stay with me. Focus on me, Irving. Irving? Irving? Irving, can you hear me? (Irving gasps) Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Don't move too fast. Drink. (bleak music) (Irving coughing) Eat this. - What happened? - Eat. You've been in and out for about 12 hours, but you're stable now. We're lucky it didn't hit an artery, but the punctures are pretty deep. (Irving catches her breath) - I need to get to a hospital. - We'll get there. But right now, I need to apply a proper bandage - Ford? I need you to talk me through this, 'cause right now you are scaring the shit outta me. - Okay? Basic wound care. Assess, stop the bleeding, disinfect, and bandage. Got it? - Got it. Okay. (bleak music continues) (Irving whimpering) Just keep breathing. Just keep breathing. (Irving breathing heavily) (Irving whimpering) (Irving yelps) (tense music) - What is that? - I dunno. Maybe scrap sheet metal. (Irving breathing heavily) I'm gonna clean the wound now, okay? Actually, maybe you wanna bite onto to something. Just in case. Just in case. (Irving breathing heavily) - Three, two. (Irving whimpering) (intense music) - Okay, I'm gonna put out some antibiotic minute. (Irving whimpering) Keep breathing. Here we go. I'm gonna put this on. It's gonna help with the pain and the bleeding. - What is that? - It's yarrow. It's pretty common out here. Found some by the campsite. (Irving whimpering) Still with me? (Irving breathing heavily) (forlorn music) (whistle blows in sets of three, a distress call) (Ford blows whistle three times) (trees rustling) Looks like we're on our own. Forgot to charge my GPS, so I left it in the car. Does does your phone still work? - It's dead. - Great. Well, I have enough supplies for a few more bandages. - Until we can get to a hospital? - Right. I'm going ahead, but the nearest road is two days away. - Go. I can wait here. - Even if I drop everything and make it to someone with a phone in two days, if you pass out or an infection sets in, it's too big a risk. - So we keep moving. - The more you walk, the more likely it'll bleed thought or get infected. - If we stay put, we run outta supplies and it gets infected, if we keep moving- - It'll reopen and the risk of infection gets worse. (Irving sighs) But we might have a chance of getting to a hospital. - Are you sure there's not anyone who can help? Another hiker? Anyone? - It's the off-season. You knew that before you came out here, right? - No. I just found a trail and started hiking. - I haven't seen anyone in days. I mean, I'll keep trying, but the odds of someone finding us soon... - Did you see it? - See what? - Something grabbed me, something big. - I didn't see anything. Like I said, it was probably sheet metal or something. - I don't think it was sheet metal. Something grabbed me. - You just lost a lot of blood. You might not know what you saw. - I know what I felt, Ford. (ominous tone) - Let's just focus on getting out of here, okay? (haunting music) (haunting music continues) (footsteps crunching) (Irving gasping) (haunting music continues) (eerie music) (car door slams) - [Child] Mommy. (Irving gasps) (tires skidding) (Irving gasping) (objects rustling) How'd you sleep? (sighs) Same. - How's it looking? - Just trying to narrow things down. Got some water and acetaminophen for you over there. What's this? - Nothing. You can toss it. - Can I ask why'd you choose an external frame pack? - What do you mean? - It's just that most people go with an internal frame. Better balance, lighter weight, that sort of thing. - It was my mom's, she left it for me. You know she liked the PCT when she was a teenager? - Oh? - Yeah. - Did she ever take you with her? - No, we never got the chance. I always wanted to, though. - Oh wow. Iodine tablets. Haven't seen those in a while. - Yeah, most of her old stuff is still in there. I just threw in some clothes and the tent. - You wouldn't happen to have a compass in there, would you? No compass and no GPS. Shit. (tense music) (thunder echoes) (rain pattering) (water splashing) (tense music continues) - Ford. I need to stop soon. (thunder rumbles) - Okay. (thunder echoes) - Pretty glad I brought this tent now, huh? Ford. - What? - What's wrong? - Nothing. - You know I'm going as fast as I can, right? - Yeah. - Come on, talk to me. - (sighs) I don't know if we're gonna make it. This is my fault. - It's nobody's fault, Ford. If you hadn't pulled me out that lake, I might not even be here. (tense music ends) (rain pattering) - Last year, I took a call when a guy got trapped under water. By the time we got there, he'd stopped breathing and he barely had a pulse. We loaded him up. We're on our way to the hospital, and then he died. (somber music) Right next to me. - That's awful. - Never felt so helpless in my life. (somber music continues) - This is my daughter, Eleanor. It was her birthday party. We had a little photo booth set up. - I'm glad you got something to keep you going. - It was a car accident. - I made it out, but she was trapped inside. - That must have been terrible. - You just can't save everyone. - But you have to try. (somber music continues) (Irving groans) - You good? - Yeah. (grunts) (music softens) (whistle blows three times) (shuffling footsteps) (sinister music) (blood dripping) (blood dripping) (sinister music rises) (music ends abruptly) (footsteps crunching) (sleeping bags rustling) - It was a long day. - Yeah. You should get some rest. (Irving sighs) I'll check on you in a bit. - Mm. Hey, can I grab one of those granola bars? - Yeah, just don't eat too many. You're gonna spoil dinner. (Irving laughs) (flask top unscrews) We made good progress today. You should be proud of that. (Irving sighs) Irving, you can't drink alcohol. - We're celebrating. - That's our emergency disinfectant. (tense music rises) - Shit. I didn't know. - You know I'm trying to help you, right? - Yeah. - That was stupid. It was reckless and selfish. What is wrong with you? I'm trying to help you. You're not gonna make it outta these woods if you do stupid shit like that. I thought you wanted to live! (Irving gasping) (tense music subsides) (Irving's heart beats rapidly) - I'm sorry. (Irving gasping) Irving, I'm sorry. It's just stress. - Leave. - We still need to Leave. (Irving gasping) (weary music) (Irving sighs) (tarp rustling) - Hey. (Irving grunts) (contemplative music) (footsteps crunching) Can we talk? I'm just trying to get us outta here. (Irving sighs) - You don't get it. - Get what? (gentle music) (music darkens) - His name's Ben. Even though every crush I had as a kid was on girls, he was funny and he was nice to me. I got pregnant, and we were married at 18. The flowers and little gestures dried up, and all that was left was Nori. I always knew I wasn't straight, but I built an entire life based on assumptions other people made for me. A default that wasn't true. - And how do you just become gay? - You not listening to me. - I wish I wasn't. Because all I'm hearing is selfishness. - I knew I wanted out, but I didn't know how to do it. - You're joking, right? - Get away from me. (gasps) Ben, you're hurting me. (music crescendos) I couldn't accept that he wasn't that same person, and he couldn't accept me. (somber music) - I'm so sorry. - I know you're stressed. We both are. But you can't yell at me like that. It's a hard line for me. - Okay. I can do that. - Thank you. - When we get to the hospital, are you going back there? - I've been trying to figure that out. (somber music continues) (creek flowing) (Irving strains with effort) (Irving sighs) (water splashes) (intense music) (flies buzzing) (Irving screams) - What? What is it? Ah, poor thing. Looks like a newborn fawn. Tried to walk, but ended up in the creek. Maybe the doe got scared off by something and didn't come back. Whoa. Hey, you okay? (tense music rises) - I need a minute. - Not to be indelicate, but I think I need to get our water from upstream. We can't drink this. - I wanna bury her. - What? I wanna bury the fawn. - Irving, we don't have time for this. (intense music continues) - But she's worth it. - It's a deer. We're in the woods. Animals die. - I am the one who's dying here, and I will decide if it's worth it. (tense music subsides) (Irving sobbing) (eerie music) (Irving gasps) - [Eleanor] Mommy! (eerie music rises) (shovel scraping) (music ends abruptly) - Thank you. - You ready to go get her? (creek flowing) - Do you see her? Could have sworn she was right here. - I think she was further upstream. (eerie music) (fawn bleats) (intense music) (Irving gasping) (Irving screams) Irving? Irving! (Irving groaning in pain) (intense music falls away) - Irving, what happened? Oh shit. (Irving groans) Don't move your head. I'm gonna stop the bleeding. (Irving gasping) This is gonna hurt. (Irving screams) - Hang on, hang on. Stay with me. (Irving screaming) (intense music rises) Hey. Can you tell me your name? Do you know where you are? Irving? Irving? Irving? (Irving breathing shakily) - Ford. Ford? (groans) - Take it easy. You just lost a lot of blood. You need to drink water right now. (Irving sighs) - You're running a fever. - Does that mean? - Infection, yeah. (Irving sighs) Were you feeling feverish before today? Weakness, chills, headaches? - No. - Seeing things that aren't there? (wind rushes) - I'm not sure. - This is exactly what I was afraid of. - What do we do? - I don't know. (sighs) I don't know. There's no way. We're not gonna make it. - That's not true. - I shouldn't be doing this. I can't help anybody. - Ford. We can still make it out of here, okay? I don't have to be in good shape. We just have to make it to a hospital, right? - Yeah. - So how do we do that? - Um, to keep moving, we need to slow down the infection, but we're out of Tylenol. Antibiotic ointment only does so much. - What can you find out here? - What? You've been foraging for yarrow. Is there anything else? - There's oregano. Garlic, but we're not gonna find that out here. Maybe there's wild thyme. - Okay, wild thyme. Ford? - Honey. - What? - I need to leave you for a while. Promise me you'll stay awake. - Go. (Ford's footsteps retreat into the woods) (Irving gasping) (footsteps crunching) (intense music) (uneven breathing and shivering) (bees buzzing) (intense music continues) (Irving gasping) - [Ford] I don't know if we're gonna make it. (Irving gasping) (intense music continues) When we get to the hospital, are you going back there? (Irving gasping) Ford? - [Irving] He couldn't accept me. (gentle music) (wind whistling) (gentle music) (birds chirping) - Nori. Good morning. - Hi Mommy. - (laughs) Did you get some good sleep? - Mm-hmm. What's on your arm? - Oh, Mommy just got in a little accident. - Daddy yelled again? - He's just under a lot of stress. - Okay. - Nori, how did you get this? (intense music) Nori, did daddy hurt you? Nori? (intense music continues) (Irving gasps) (Irving straining) - Morning. - Morning. - How you feeling? - Better, a lot better. Why do I feel better? (laughs) - I got lucky. (Irving sighs) Found a wild beehive. Honey's one of the best natural antiseptics in the world, - Honey? - Mm-hmm. - Some of the comb and more yellow in there. We're outta supplies, but honey's good enough we can leave it on. Wanna give it a shot? (tender music) (Irving laughs softly) - I can walk. (laughs) - You can walk. - (sobs) Thank you. Thank you. (sniffs) - Not to burst the bubble, but we should talk about what's next. - Yeah, we can do that later. (sniffs) Ford, we're gonna make it. (laughs) (water rushing) (birds chirping) (tender music continues) (Ford grunts) - How you feeling? - Good. For the first time in a while. (sighs) - You ready? (footsteps crunching) (tender music fades) (water rushing) (eerie music) (a distant engine revs) - Okay, new problem. It's a dead end. - No, it, there can't be a dead end. People hike this trail all the time. It can't just end. - Hey. We'll figure this out. There's always a way through. (thunder echoes) (whistle blowing) (rain pattering) (Irving breathing heavily) (whistle blowing continues) - Ford. - What's up? - Moss. We were headed south, right? Moss grows on the north side of the tree. I remember that one. My mom taught me. - Of course. - We cut through the woods headed south and gain some elevation, we should either run into The Trail, or be able to spot it from distance. - You sure you're up for cross-country? (Irving sighs) (uneasy music) Come on, let's go. (Irving gasps) (straining) (uneasy music continues) Let's take a break. - Oh, thanks. Ooh. Hey, do we have anything to eat? - Ah, two granola bars and some GORP. - What the hell is GORP? - It's a, it's trail mix. - Is it actually trail mix, or are you just calling it that to get me to eat something called GORP? - Granola, oats, raisins, peanuts. G-O-R-P, GORP. - Okay, so two granola bars and some GORP. - Mm-hmm. - GORP. Gooooooooorrrrrp GORP. - Okay, we can stop saying GORP now. - I don't think I'll ever stop saying GORP, to be honest. Are we gonna starve because we don't have enough GORP? - Well, technically humans can survive 30 days without food and three without water. - Right. Let's not test that, shall we? (trees rustling) (Irving sighs) You're not asleep, are you? - (sighs) I wish I was. - Mm. (Irving sighs) - I haven't gotten more than an hour of sleep since the lake. - Mm. - But I'd kill for one of those hours right now. - Yeah. I thought it was hard sleeping on The Trail. - I could string up the hammock if you want. - No, it's, it's not the mat, or even the ground. It's the silence. Even in the country on a night like this, you'd hear crickets, birds, bugs, wind rusting in the trees. But out here, every night's like this. Just silent. - Huh. I hadn't noticed that before. - You can't not hear it. - There goes that hour. (Irving laughs) (Irving sighs) - Hey, Ford. - Yeah? - What's your worst fear? - (laughs) I'm gonna have to think about it. You? - Hm, abandonment. Not being abandoned. Abandoning someone I love, and not realizing it till it's too late. - I think I got one. - Hmm. (gentle music) - When I was in EMT training, my dad got sick. He said it wasn't a big deal. Turns out he needed emergency surgery with a 30% chance of survival. (Irving sighs) He didn't tell anyone he was going, and he didn't make it. - How awful. - If he'd told us, we could have been there for him, but in the end, he died alone, without anyone he loved, or anyone who loved him. - Kind of like that patient you told me about. - Yeah. (gentle music continues) - So I guess that's my worst fear. To die alone. (gentle music continues) (Irving sighs) (gentle music continues) (footsteps crunching) - Holy shit. (laughs) Ford! Ford! This is it. This is The Trail. - We need to find a trail sign. - Come on. This is The Trail. (sighs) Come on. (gasping) - Careful. - We're gonna make it. We're gonna make it. (tense music) (distant howl) - That is... - No. - It's the same lake. Ford, that's the same lake! Look at it. Look at it! That is the same lake. How did this happen? (gasping) - I don't know. - We were, we were headed south. We followed the moss. How are we back here? - Maybe we were doomed from the start. (music intensifies) - But maybe it wasn't an accident. - What? - I followed you here. We headed south the whole time. You saw it yourself with the moss. - I don't know what I saw. I'm feverish and seeing things, remember? You weren't trying to help me. You wanted to keep me here. - No, Irving. I swear, I don't know how this happened. (both grunting) - Irving! Irving! (Irving gasping) - Stay away from me. The moment I first saw you, I knew. Oh, I should have listened to my gut. But you were nice and funny, just like him. And I trusted you! Just like him. Just to have you lead me in circles out here until I die. - Irving, I'm here to help. - Bullshit. (intense music continues) (distant howl roars) - What is that? - You can hear them? The sirens? (intense music) (Ford groans) - Do not follow me. I'm getting out of here without you. (Ford gasping) (intense music continues) (footsteps crunching) (intense music continues) (water rushing) (Irving panting) (Irving yelps) (water bubbling) - [Ben] You wanted to blow up our lives. Our kid's life (echoing) - [Eleanor] Are you coming back? (water rushing) (Irving gasping and groaning) (Irving groans) (Irving straining) (sorrowful music) (Irving groaning) (Irving groaning and panting) (sorrowful music continues) - You're not going to die here. You're not going to die here. Come on. Come on. (Irving whimpers) Come on. (groans) Just get outta here. (groans) (Irving whimpering and gasping) (water rushing continues) (sorrowful music crescendos) (shuffling footsteps) (ominous music) (Irving gasping and groaning) (ominous music continues) (Irving sniffs) (wind howling) (Irving shivering) (wind whistling) (tense music) No. (panting) (wind rushing) (tense music continues) (Irving grunting in pain) (snow crunching) (tense music continues) (wind whistling) (thunder echoes) (Irving panting) (snow crunching) (Irving groans) (Irving screams) (distant howl) (wind whistling) Help! Anybody! Please! (wind whistling) (Irving whimpering) (snow crunching) - Irving! We need to get out of here. (Ford grunting) Come on. Come on. (Irving whimpering) (eerie music) We need to go. - I cut your hand at the lake. - Yeah, you did. And it really hurt. (thunder echoes) - This isn't a fever. - [Ford] Just say something. - What? (distant howl) - Say something. (sirens wailing) Please, just say something. Anything. (sirens wailing) (machines beeping) (wind whipping) - The last thing I remember, I was driving down the highway, thinking I couldn't live with the guilt. (Irving screams) Nori, sweetie, can you do me a big favor and bring out some clothes? - [Eleanor] Why? - We're going on a trip. It's gonna be so much fun. Um, and toothbrush. Bring your toothbrush, please. - [Eleanor] Okay, Mom. - Money, credit card. Okay. (Irving sighs) Okay. (door slams) - Mommy, you forgot to lock the door. - Oh, that's okay, sweetie. All right. Get on in. Oh, thank you. Okay. All right, buckle up. (car door slams) (tense music) Okay. - Mommy, I forgot my fox. - That's okay, sweetie. Uh, we will get him when we come back. - When? - I don't know. - Mommy, I want my fox! - Okay, uh, run inside and get it. - Okay. - All right, be quick. Go, go, go. (Irving breathing heavily) (intense music continues) (Irving muttering) No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no! (Irving panting) - Irving. - No, no, no, no, no, no. (jagged breathing) (car revving) - She's alive. You told me she died. (sorrowful music) - Because what kind of mother would leave her child with a man like that? That's the last thing I remember. (Irving screams) - And then I was on The Trail. (tires skidding) (sorrowful music) - We are not on the PCT. (sirens wailing) (machines beeping) - Am I dead? - No, but you're not far from it. The crash nearly killed you, and if you don't make it out of here... - It doesn't matter. I should be dead. I left her in that house with that man! - You were terrified. You can't hold that against yourself. - Are you kidding me? I abandoned her. (sorrowful music continues) - I am so fucking ashamed. (thunder echoes) I don't deserve her. I don't deserve her. I don't deserve to be here. (Irving cries) How can I ever look her in the eyes again? - Because of what you're about to do. Find her. - How? - She's right where you left her. (sirens wailing) Come on, you can make it. You can make it. (sorrowful music fades) - Where I left her. Where I left her. (intense music) I'm coming, Nori. (sirens wailing) (machines beeping) (intense music continues) (sirens wailing) (machines beeping) (howl echoes) (howl echoes) (water splashing) (sirens wailing) (machines beeping) (sirens wailing) I love you, Nori. (intense music rises) (sirens wailing) (machines beeping) (gentle music) (grass rustling) (gentle music continues) (trees rustling) (stream flowing) (gentle music continues) - Nori, come on. You ready? All righty. And one, two. Do you wanna fly? Okay, stand right there. - Yeah! - Whoa, nice. (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues)